---
title: 3407
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

THE LAZY PERSON SECRETS TO OVER NIGHT WEALTH AND FAME

There are so many imple, yet really sure-fire ways of acquiring
wealth, it's a wonder everybody with even the least bit of
ambition isn't already rich. When you come right down to it, the
only things needed for anyone to make bundles of money are the
long-range vision and the energy to put a money-making plan into
force.

One of the easiest methods of building wealth, and the one most
often used by the "smart" people, is to furnish the expertise,
equipment or growth capital to promising beginning business.
Basically, you buy in as either a part owner or limited partner;
then, as the busines grows and propers with your help, you reap
your share of rewards.

The beautiful part about this whole concept is that you can
repeat this procedure over and over again. You can start out
with, say marketing and sales leadership for small, garage-type
business; then with your holdings and earnings from that
business, invest in another, and keep doing this until you own a
part of twenty-five to an unlimited number of businesses. Looking
at the idea from a dollar return point of view, if you were
getting $200 per month from 25 different business, your monthly
income would amount to no less than $5,000 and that's not too bad
for a fledgling millionaire.

Look around your own area. With just a little bit of business
sense and perception, you're sure to find hundreds of small
businesses that could do better--perhaps even become giants in
their--with your help.

Most small businesses need, and would welcome marketing,
promotional, advertising, and sales help. If a quick survey of
business turns you on with enthusiasm about the potential profits
to be made with just a few changes that you can suggest, then you
are on your way.

Basically, you set up an appointment to see and talk with
business owners about some ideas and help that could double or
triple their profits. When you approach them in that manner,
their almost certain to want to see you and hear want you have to
say.

In prepartion for your meeting, set your ideas down on paper. Put
them together in an impressive marketing or profit potential
folio. Outline your ideas, the costs involvrd and the ultimate
profit to be gained.

Then, when you arrive for the meeting, be sure to look nad act
the part of a successful business person.A few pleasantries to
break the ice, and begin with your presentation.

Through your proposal, you must instill confidence that you can
do all you claim for him. Guide him through the presentation to
the ultimate profits---- all for a 10 or 20 percent limited
partnership in the business, which really won't cost him
anything. Of course, if he is reluctant to give up any part of
his ownership, you come back with the idea of being hired as a
consultant.

Almost all small businesses need help of some kind. The owners
get bogged down in a myraid of every day problems and things to
do. They find there just are not enough hours in the day to
handle everything that should be taken care of, and end up
neglecting or putting off some of the things they should be doing
to keep the business prosperous. As a result, the long struggle
for business survival begins, with more than 60% of them selling
out at a loss or just closing up shop.

The other way to " cut yourself in" on a piece of someone else's
business is to supply needed money. If you can come up with 10 or
15 thousand dollars, you can easily "buy into" some small
businesses. Be sure to look the business ( and its market
potential) over; but once you spot one that can really be a
winner with just a little bit of operating cash or money for
expansion, then start figuring!

You can reach a never ending supply of such businesses to choose
from, simply by running a small advertisement in your daily
newspaper in the .Classified section under the heading of
Business Opportunities Wanted. Such an ad might read:

SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS EXECUTIVE LOOKING FOR NEW
BUSINESS VENTURES. WILL CONSIDER BUY OUT OR
PARTNERSHIP. PO BOX 123, CITY

By the same token, make it a habit to look through the Business
Opportunities Available on a regular basis. Mark a few each day
and follow up. Check them out, And see what kind of a deal is
being offered. Remember, proper management and planning are
basically the ingredients to success in business; and most small
businesses just do not have these ingredients in the proportions
needed to attain their greatest profit potential.

Other people have done it, and more are starting up every day.
There's no reason why you can't do it. In most cases little or no
cash is needed. But with a little bit of action on your part, you
could quickly become a multi-business owner, and very wealthy as
well.