---
title: 3412
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

HOW TO START A MONEY BROKERAGE BUSINESS


...and Earn $100,000 a Year, Collect Large Fees Helping 
Others....and Borrow All The Money You Need

Becoming a Money Broker is one of the easiest and most rewarding
endeavors available. Virtually anyone can become a Money Broker
with the smallest investment. You can start this business on a
part-time basis, and earn large "Finders Fees," or open your own
office and work fulltime with absolutely unlimited income
potential.

Until very recently, the "secrets of money brokering" were
closely guarded and known only to a few select bankers,
investment corporations, and business consultants. No other
business offers the potential income figure for so little
investment! As an example, starting with less than $100, some
money brokers have made $100,000 their first year in their
business! This is the ideal way for a man or woman to supplement
his or her present income, or change professions after a period
of time. It is an absolute "dream-come-true" for the
semi-retired, or retired office worker.

There is hardly another business requiring less than $100 in
start-up cost that can put you in a six-figure income bracket so
quickly. None of them give you the power, prestige, or
status---respectability in your community---equal to that of the
Money Broker.

To get started, you'll need stationary, envelopes, and business
cards with your own letterhead. When ordering, be sure to include
your phone number. Also have copies made of your Fee Agreement.
We have presented a typical Fee Agreement form (which you may
duplicate after eradicating the instructions we have given in
blanks)

As we started, the investment in this business is small; when you
have your stationary, envelopes, cards and the Finder's Fee
Agreement in hand, you have spent part of it. The other part will
be discussed now, because you have to "find" both borrower and
lender to really get underway.

Once you have your "working paper," you will run some
advertisements in your local paper under the headings "money to
Loan," or "Business Opportunities." Typical ads might read:

   MONEY AVAILABLE FOR BILL CONSOLIDATION, HOME REPAIR, 
   BUSINESS EXPANSION, ANY WORTHWHILE PROJECT CALL JOHN 
   423-8821

(This ad would be used to "pull" BORROWERS)

   BUSINESSMAN NEEDS CAPITAL FOR EXPANSION. EXCELLENT 
  COLLATERAL AND REFERENCES. CALL JOHN JOHNSON AFTER 4:00 PM 
  423-8821

(This one would be to attract LENDERS)

In response to the calls or letters from prospective clients, you
will have to be prepared (really BE prepared by practicing) with
the proper answers and sales pitch--(to the prospective
borrower): "Yes, this is John Johnson. Thank you for calling.
First I will explain how we operate. I'm a money broker, Mr. (USE
HIS NAME!)____. I bring you, the borrower, and the lender,
together. I have different money sources available---banks,
insurance companies, private investment groups of doctors,
dentists, lawyers, and other professional people. My sources are
in business to make money by lending out money. Let's see-- I
need to determine your needs and the purpose of the loan in order
to properly prepare the necessary financial papers for your loan
request as many as ten different lending groups in order to get
the loan for you. Once I have an approval on your loan request,
I'm paid anywhere from 2% to 10% of the total loan
figure...important for you to remember, though, is that I don't
get paid less I GET the loan for you. I do, however charge a $100
non-refundable Application Fee to cover my expenses in preparing
your request for loan papers and presenting this portfolio to the
lenders. In a nutshell, that's how these types of loans are
negotiated. Now then, how much will you need?

(Note that five successful registrations per will bring you $500
each week.)

This is where you begin to acquire the information you are going
to need to proceed--the amount of money needed---purpose of the
loan---terms the borrower wants for repayment--and a profile of
his background--education, employment record, date of birth,
Social Security number, marital status, general health, and
number of dependents.

Next you type this information onto the proper forms, assembling
all into a portfolio and presenting it with a cover letter to at
least five different lenders for their consideration.

When the loan is granted, you collect your Brokers Fee--a
pre-determined percentage of the total loan figure.

   (TYPICAL FEE AGREEMENT FORM)

YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS

AGREEMENT FOR FINANCIAL SERVICE

The undersigned,   Borrower's name, hereby appoints YOUR NAME, as
his Agent and authorizes him to submit to lenders data
information supplied by the borrower, for the purpose of the
lender making a loan or investment direct to the undersigned. The
undersigned aggress to pay to YOUR NAME, a fee of ___% of the
amount of the loan or investment obtained. The undersigned hereby
pays to YOUR NAME, $____ as a non-refundable fee for the time
involved to appraise the feasibility of loan requested; this fee
is separate from any
other fess due, if the loan is obtained.


                                          
___________________                  _______________________    
  Date                                 Borrower