---
title: 3421
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

HOW TO START A DATING AND ESCORT SERVICE

Starting and operating a successful Dating and Escort Service can
bring in $60,000 or more per year for the sharp, aggressive,
imaginative business person. The secret to success with a
business of this kind is advertising that presents your services
with a "show business" flair---while still maintaining good
taste.

To get started, you need an impressive looking application form.
Research into a number of successful operations seems to indicate
that a four-page application works well.

This should be typeset with an attractive letterhead or company
masthead on 11 by 17 inch paper, folded in half to give the
impression of a "personal file." your best paper colors are
either pale blue or ivory. The better paper stock you can afford,
the more impressive your application will be--giving a greater
aura of credibility to your business, and thus to prospective
clients.

In addition to the usual questions such as name, address,
telephone number, marital status, place of employment, hobbies,
likes and dislikes, your application should contain:

*** A short personality test which can be obtained with a bit of
research at your public library. For ideas, samples, and even
tests you can use intact, be sure to check some of the modern
women's magazines. And don't discount the idea of registering at
an already established business of this type; or possibly you can
see their application form without actually involving yourself
any further. Or inquire among friends and acquaintances who have
registered with a dating or escort service.


*** Near the end of the application, you should include a short
paragraph pointing up the fact that your organization, in
addition to bringing people together as a dating service, also
provides an escort service for out-of-town visitors and local
non-members. You then pose the question: "Would you be interested
in these kinds of dates, which would include all expenses, and a
minimum fee of $25 for what usually amounts to a very delightful
time with an interesting person. Your only obligation ever is to
be your usual charming self, and enjoy."

*** Just before or above the blank for your applicant's
signature, include a legal disclaimer to any responsibilities or
promises implied and/or not specifically stated within the
application.

The building in which your locate: for this one, you'll need a
store-front office, and it should be in a better part of the
business district in your city. Try to select a site that is
upbeat and attractive without being"jivey"--one that would appeal
to the more conservative or mature as well as the younger
generation. Many of your clients are going to be mature, and be
reminded, the mature, intelligent sector of our society
is"getting younger" and more vigorous,"still interested in
life"more than in years past. In other words, the section where
you locate should reflect a modern attitude, but with solid
values.

The reception area of your office should be large and comfortable
with as expensive a look as you can manage. Your receptionist is
very important--very. She should be attractive, with a vivacious
and outgoing personality. She should be able to quickly put your
prospective clients at ease, and generally make them feel that
belonging to your group is going to be the beginning of happier
times, fun, and lasting friendships.

You should have at least two expensive looking picture scrapbooks
on the coffee table in your reception room. These you can fill 
with portrait or candid shots of members and clients. These
pictures can pose a problem for you while you are in the
beginning stages--so don't hesitate to gather pictures of various
relatives, friends who are not necessary located in your area--or
even visit a nearby campus and ask if you can take pictures of
some of the best looking men and women. You will need to get a
release signed by each one, and you simply explain that you are
putting together a picture display book of terrific looking
people in your area for the promotion of your business, and their
names and any other information will not be publicized or
released.

After your prospective client has filled out the application, the
next step is a personal interview. Your office should be cozy and
comfortable, but business-like, and you should arrange for
uninterrupted time in complete privacy with each person.

You should use the interview to go over the application, answer
any questions, and close the membership sale. you also use this
interview as the basis of your estimate of the kind of person
most likely to match this client. Be empathetic with your
clients; you are going to meet people who are tired of the
"dating game" as it is usually played out in the singles bars and
unproductive groups they had joined before. You might get added
help in the area of interviewing by writing for advertising
material and brochures from similar services in other areas,
adapting any techniques you like to your on interviewing process.

Most escort services we looked into publish a monthly newsletter
with tidbits of information and gossip about members. Who's doing
what; job changing; who's travelling where; plus a listing of
upcoming events and activities. Listing the names of new members
is also a good idea, and quotes from members who are active and
enjoying the service. Some of these newsletters feature"girl and
guy of the month" with lots of pictures-"on the town", involved
in hobbies at home, and candid shots in everyday life. Usually,
the escort service itself will sponsor an "all membership" party
about once every three months to introduce other members and
project a sense of "family" and belonging.

As we said earlier, advertising is the key to your success with
this project. A small classified ad, run for about a week in the
"Personals" column of your area newspaper,should start the ball
rolling for you. Some ideas for pulling inquires from men might
read like this: "Career woman, new to the area,seeking dates with
honest, fun-loving guys. Call Barbara 123-4567," or, "Young
recent divorcee ready to start dating again Call Linda at
234-5678."

And for attracting inquires from women: "Young business executive
wants to meet eligible ladies. Call Ron at 345-6789," or, "Active
and ambitious young man wants to meet wholesome, All-American
kind of girl. Call Brain at 456-7890."

At the time you have an ad this type running, you'll want to have
a bulletin board ads and notices on all the college campuses, in
as many company newspapers as you can get into, and where ever
people are most likely to take notice. This ad should be a
straight advertisement inviting people to "get out of the rat
race" of the singles game by joining your organization. You'll of
course emphasize confidentiality, respectability, and the fact
you deal only with people who are really serious about meeting
new friends and forming lasting relationships.

Your ads soliciting new members should tell readers you'll help
them meet new friends and enjoy dates with people especially
matched to their own likes and dislikes. A sense of fun and
excitement should be conveyed, but at the same time, honesty,
respectability and trust. You cannot use flashy headlines or
pictures of models that give a connotation  of an invitation into
the bedroom. write your ads from the point of view of the people
you want to sell to--build from what you believe to be their
special wants, and visualize their thinking. Put yourself in the
place of the prospective new member, and understand that it takes
a great deal of nerve, we might even call it COURAGE, to make
that move to ask for help in dating. (It is generally easier to
just let things slide along--stay in the same old "lonesome rut"
than ask for help--and risk disappointment.)

You'll have to have a "planned explanation" when people call in 
answer to your ads. Quickly get the name and phone number, ask a
few questions, then set up an appointment for him or her to come
into your office. When you are in the interview, be
bright,inviting,but factual and brief--and DON'T  lose control of
the conversation. Best to have your questions and answers written
out in order that works best to pull the prospect into your
office, and then follow it to the letter.

When you're ready to expand with the Escort Services, get the
word out to all the likely places where people are wanting these
services will see your ads or hear about you in friend-to-friend
conversation. Have some interesting posters made up inviting
people to call asking about your good-looking, friendly, and
charming escorts for every occasion--dinner dates, banquets,
parties, theater dates, dancing, special occasions. Try to get
one of these upon the wall at the airport, train and bus
stations, and in better hotel and motel lobbies in your
area--anywhere else that travelers are likely to notice them.

Run a regular ad in your Thursday and Fridays papers, and also in
the yellow pages of your telephone directory. Pass out business
cards to all the car rental agencies and restaurants near the
travel centers and to anyone and everyone having anything to do
with convention or tourist arrangements in your area.


You will have to experiment and test to determine the right fee
to charge for providing an escort, but with most escort services,
the minimum is $50, pus all expenses.

This is a business that will provide pleasure and profit to a
person who is outgoing, fun-loving, gregarious, but who is
sensitive to the needs of others, and enjoys seeing people "get a
new start," or seeing more reserved ones "come out of their
shells." It takes more to get started in this business than it
does for some other endeavors, but this is one that can start
small and grow, improve, and even spread to franchising size.