---
title: 3602
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

THE EASIEST MOST PROFITABLE MAIL ORDER
                          BUSINESS OF THEM ALL


  To be rich--to have an endless supply of money for anything and
everything--is the goal of almost every man, woman and child in
the world. More specifically, the people who don't have but would
like to have money enough for everything they've always wanted,
are continually searching for some "secret combination" that will
open the doors to unlimited wealth for them..

  Sooner or later, these people all turn to mail order selling
and, one way or another, give it a try as a pathway to the
fulfillment of all of their dreams. And, why not..

  They are constantly bombarded with "fabulous get rich quick"
opportunity offers in their mail boxes. In just about every
magazine they look at, full page advertisements promising UTOPIA,
Just for clipping and sending in the attached coupon, jump out at
them.

  Each and every one of these opportunity offers seems to promise
complete fulfillment of the readers "needs, wants and desires."
They all make it sound as if all one has to do is sign up--send
in a small fee--get the details--an explanation of the plan--an
almost immediately, their mail boxes will begin to overflow with
letters containing cash, checks and money orders. No big
investment--no business knowledge--and no work required..

  My friend, all this is "advertising hype" designed to "lead the
reader into seeing and tasting" the fulfillment of all his
dreams. He's so overwhelmed by "the solution to his wants"
offered by the advertisement, and he reads "only what he wants to
read" in these opportunity offers. That's "Top-of-the-line"
copywriting, and worth it's weight in gold!

  Disregarding the obvious "chain letter and envelope stuffing
schemes," these opportunity offers for "riches beyond your
wildest dreams," gives one of two money-making plans.

  The first is some sort of "book of knowledge" written by
someone on typing ability but generally sadly lacking in the
experience of "having done it himself," and/or the ambition to
get away from his typewriter long enough to "make his own mint"
using the plan he's advising you to follow.

  These writers tell you to "knock out" a how-to report about
something that you're an expert on--to run a low-cost classified
ad offering it for sale in a national publication--and then sit
back and let the money roll in..The thing is, what does a
shipping clerk, and engine lathe operator, or retail sales clerk
know that other people will pay money to learn?

   Even if one of these people were to come up with a saleable
how-to report, where are they going to get "expertise" to write a
real order-pulling ad, and which national publication is the
"right one" for him to advertise in...The truth of the matter is
that very few, if any--shipping clerks, engine lathe operators,
or retail clerks--know the first thing about writing how-to
reports, composing classified ads, or placing advertising in
national publications...

  In fact, the very idea of undertaking such necessities to
successful mail order selling--at the risk of losing a lot of
"hard-earned" money--is so frightening to so many people that
they never get beyond this part of the instruction sheet. And
most of those that do rely upon what they "think" they know about
writing how-to reports composing classified ads, and placing
advertising in national publication--would be much better off,
and receive a lot more value for their money, by spending it at
the neighborhood church or community center.

  The other kind of money making plan these "dream fulfillment"
advertisements offer is a Super Profitable Mail Order Dealership
of your own..

  You buy the book that explains all the procedures for making
millions via mail order...Included with your "book of knowledge,"
is a camera ready circular advertising this book--the same one
you sent for to make YOU rich--and a dealership instruction
sheet.

  This beautiful piece of sales copy explains how everyone in all
parts of the world is just waiting for the chance to buy a copy
of this book--after all-- you were eager to buy it, weren't you?
Thus, the instruction sheet goes on to explain, all you've got to
do is either order a supply of these circulars--at inflated
printing costs--or better yet, take the camera ready copy to your
near-by "quick-print" shop and have it reprinted with your
name/address on the order coupon. From there, you simply send
these circulars to waiting buyers, deduct 50% from each order you
receive--this is your gross income--forward the customer's name,
order and remaining 50% of the sales price on to the people you
bought your book from, and you're supposedly, home free!

  Two very important factors of this plan must be considered
before anticipating any income..Profits have be weighted against
your costs of making each sale..But even before these factors can
be considered however, the prospective seller must be sure of the
"mass appeal" of the product he's about to offer, and precisely
his "available prospective customers." In other words, and in
case of a report or book, it's the "appeal of the title" and the
mailing list or number of opportunity buyers he can present his
offer to..These are the bottom-line factors that will decide
whether or not your efforts result in your pockets being filled
with profits or monthly payments and debt...

  Assuming you've understood the theme of our discussion thus
far, you're probably thinking that "supply the needs of the mail
order sellers" is where all the big money is being made in mail
order. And, if this is the trend of your thinking, you're
absolutely right! It always has been, and it always will be your
bigger profit maker...

  Thus, the easiest and most profitable mail order business is
supplying mail order sellers with mailing lists--the names and
addresses of people looking for money-making opportunities...

  Unless a mail order seller has ready and dependable source of
fresh prospects--names and addresses--to send his offers to, his
business will soon wither and die. Every mail order seller in the
country needs constant supply of new names/addresses for his
business to grow and his profits to build. The need for, and the
demand for prospective mail order buyers is glutinous and
unlimited! All you have to do is organize your ability to supply
this need, and then turn contact mail order operators with your
program to supply them with new prospects.

  You start with a basic supply of 10,000 names--we offer you a
basic supply of 10,000 names on plain paper masters, all set to
copy onto your own labels as often, and whenever quantities your
buyers request--for just $1.00...these are names and addresses of
our own customers--people who have spent anywhere form $2 to $850
for money-making reports, manuals and programs that we
offer...After more than 20 very successful years in business,
we've found that the more often a mailing list is used, the more
money the people that mailing list spend..

  We run our own mailing list subscription service which brought
in more than $65,000 for us last year. Here's how we operate our
service, and recommend that you consider duplicating...

  Each week, we send out sales letters offering our Mailing List
Subscription to mail order entrepreneurs across the country.
Basically, we're offering to supply them with a 100 names of our
buyers within the past week, on peel and stick labels, for $5 or
10- week subscription period $50.. 200 names for $9 or $90 for a
10-week subscription...300 names for $12 or 300 per week over a
10-week subscription for just $120...
 
  Operationally, our girls type the names and addresses of our
customers from incoming orders onto "label masters" as they are
received...On Friday afternoons, these girls then photo-copy
these masters onto sheets of labels for our mailing list
subscribers, with never more than 12-subscribers receiving any
part of, or the same thousand names...

  We generate orders--get our names--thou a number of different
methods. By far, most of the names come from the advertisement
below, which is run on a regular basis in a number of national
publications...  

    FREE! All-new home-based money-making opportunity! Send SASE
to:

  Of late, this small classified ad has been generating better
than 4,000 names per month for us. The report we send out is a
simple one-page instruction sheet explaining how anyone can make
extra money by saving, and selling, his in-coming mail. Along
with each of these reports we send out, we include a copy of out
Money Tree circular, and our mailing list subscription service
sales letters. In reply to this package, and average 3 out of 4
people send in to get in on the Money Tree Program, and/or
mailing list subscription service. From there, we just keep right
on going by setting these people as "independent commission sales
people" for our entire list of business success reports and
business start-up manuals.

  The most important part of a Subscription Mailing List Service
is to have a good supply of names--a mailing list ready-to-use,
organized and on hand. As mentioned earlier, we feel you'll need
at least a basic supply of 10,000 names as a starter supply.

  The next most important ingredient is your subscriber sales
letter. A copy of our current sales letter is included at the end
of this report. It pulls very well for us, as I'm sure it'll do
for you--but the important point here is an example of how to
write such a sales letter, as with a pattern in front of you,
perhaps you can write an even better one. You must have a sales
letter that appeals to the needs of your prospective buyer, and
at the same time, solves an outstanding problem for him.

  The next thing is to get one of your letters out to all the
mail order sellers you know of, and/or can locate. Set up a
business plan--you will compile 1,000 mail order operators per
week, from incoming mail and advertisements you run across..List
these names on 3x5 cards, and arrange in zip code order so that
you have a record of who you've sent your offer to, and
then...Continue adding to this file of mail order people..Then
each week, get a thousand letters in the mail--100 or 200 letters
per week just won't pull in the orders fast enough for you--5,000
letters per week, and you'll soon be making $1,000 per week, over
and above printing and postage costs!

  So, and as reiteration of what has been stated earlier, the
big-big money in mail order is, always has been, and always will
be made by those people with the "moxie" to supply the mail order
operators with the products and/or materials for them to operate
a by-mail business. After everything has been "torn apart and put
back together again," the bottom-line fact remains--The easiest,
and most profitable mail order business is mailing list supply
business.

  Everyone doing business by mail needs a mailing list of
prospects to whom he can send his money-producing offers. Every
mail order operator alive, and with the slightest bit of ambition
to make money, is constantly on the look-out for sources of fresh
names--prospects to whom he can send his offers. So long as
people continue to "sell by mail," there will be a demand for
mailing list!

  Look at it mathematically: if you had 100 subscribers to your
mailing list service paying you just $10 per week, you'd be
grossing $1,000 per week! Just 10 subscribers give you $100 per
week--20 subscribers, $200 per week--and from there, you're
limited only by your efforts to bring in new subscribers..When we
started our service, we sent 1,000 sales letters the first week,
and from those first letters, we came up with 25 subscribers with
5-days...Needless to say, we continued to build our subscriber
list and can truthfully say that this particular division of our
business is not only the easiest to operate, but very definitely
the most profitable of our entire operation!

  Once you've got your mailing list service established, it's
only natural that your should "add to it, or have something else
to go along with it brings in additional money." Keeping the
thought in mind, of supplying the needs of people hoping to
become rich via mail order selling, we think the logical addenda
or extra service to a mailing list service is the furnishing of
"original business success reports" that can be
reprinted/reproduced and sold by your mailing list subscribers!
From there, it's only natural that you become a "business
opportunity book dealer or seller."

  Riches beyond your wildest dreams, via mail order, are entirely
possible and waiting for you--provided you have your "finger on
the pulse" of the market, and a business plan that will enable
you to attain total success. Most opportunity offers costs you
money, a lot of your time, plus that even a "work-acholic" would
shy away from, and they deliver only enough income to keep you
"reaching" for the brass ring, untold frustration and
indebtedness...

  There are secrets in mail order--Number One, an ability to
analyze and understand the market...Number Two, the ability to
select and offer the right product at the right time--Number
Three, an ability to write advertisements and get it in front of
the majority of your potential buyers...

  Wishing you the greatest of success in all your money-making
efforts, the only thing left is for you to read over the
instructions as presented herein, get organized with your own
program, and start selling it. Everything worthwhile takes a
little bit of time to organize; a little bit of money to get
started; and a little bit of work to "push it thou to total
success," but of all the money-making possibilities you've ever
been offered this one can definitely be the easiest and most
profitable for you! Take care, and let us hear from you as you
grow...

             OUR ALL-NEW MAILING LIST SUBSCRIPTION SERVICE,
              CAN REALLY START THE ORDERS ROLLING IN FOR YOU!


 100 names-all less than 30-days old-on peel & stick labels just
$5.. A six week subscription -100 names per week on peel& stick
labels-just $25 100 names-all less than 30-days old-on plain
masters, ready for copying onto your own labels-just $4.. A six
week subscription-100 names per week on plain paper masters-just
$20... 200-names-all less than 30-days old-on peel & stick
labels-just $9... A six week subscription-200 names per week on
peel & stick labels-just $50... 200-names all less than 30-days
old-on plain masters ready for you to copy unto your own
labels-just $7... A six week subscription-200 names per week on
plain paper masters-just $40... 300 names all less than 30-days
old-on peel & stick labels-just $12 A six week subscriptions-300
names per week on peel & stick labels-just $70...300 names less
than 30-days old- on plain masters ready for you to copy unto
your labels-just $10 A six week subscription-300 names on plain
masters-just $55... 500 names-all less than 30-days old-on peel &
stick labels-just $22.50.. A six week subscription-500 names per
week on peel & stick labels-just $120...500 names- all less than
30-days old-on plain masters ready for you to copy unto your own
labels-just $15... A six week subscription-500 names per week on
plain paper masters-just $75 1,000 names-all less than 30-days
old-on peel & stick labels-just $40 A six week subscription-1,000
names on peel & stick labels-just $225 1,000 names-all less than
30-days old-on plain paper masters ready for you to copy unto
your own labels-just $25... A six week subscription-1,000 names
on plain paper masters-just $150... ****Additional thousands on
peel & stick labels, just $25 per thousand....Additional
thousands on plain paper masters, just $15 per thousand...

Remember, these are NOT names we've traded for, or compiled from
the telephone book, or purchased from some other publisher,
mailing list brokers or mail order dealer! These are
names/addresses of people who have sent money in to us within the
last 30-day period for advertising orders, self-improving tapes,
and business opportunity dealerships. Our girls compile these
lists fresh every week, from our incoming mail. These are the
hottest, most responsive names-mailing lists-you'll find
anywhere!

Indeed, this is a special service that until now has been offered
only to those subscribers and association members; but we've had
so many requests from "beginning extra-income seekers" wanting to
get started with only a few hundred names per week that we've
just recently expanded our mailing lists subscription service to
accommodate the small, and beginning mailer. After all, you'd
have to be spending a lot of money on postage alone to send out
1,000 names per week.

I urge you to give our mailing list subscription service a
try...I know you'll want to renew, and keep those orders with
cash, checks and money orders coming in on a regular basis...

Even with the "increased moving around" of people looking for
work these days--we guarantee our lists to be 93%
deliverable...And to back-up this guarantee, whenever you get
back an offer you've sent to a name on one of our mailing lists
marked "undeliverable" by the post office, just send that
envelope on to us and we'll replace that name and address with a
fresh name and address...

The bottom line of this offer is simply this. No longer do you
have to buy more names than you can use at prices that would make
your ancestors turn over in their graves--Now you can subscribe
to a regular mailing list service of fresh names--all less than
30-days old, most less than 10-days old-proven mail order buyers,
in the amount you can best handle according to your mailing
plans, and at prices that allow you a margin for real profits!
You'll be receiving fresh mailing list via First Class Priority
Mail every week, with Monday Postmark!
 
Let us start the orders rolling in for you--help you to put Real
Money in your pockets! Select the mailing list program that  best
suits your needs--and affordability--and get your subscription
check to us today!