---
title: 3604
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

SUPER PROFITABLE NEW TECHNIQUES FOR SELLING BOOKS BY MAIL

  The total number of books sold by small, part-time mail order
entrepreneurs is growing each year. Total sales each year for the
past five years have increased by almost 30-percent over the
previous year's sales.

  Two "new angles" have greatly contributed to this phenomenal
growth in total sales.

  One is the practice of offering a wide selection of books via
"mini-catalogs" The other "angle" is the practice of sending
these "min-catalogs" to prospective buyers as "inserts" in
printed materials the prospect has already ordered.

  Mini-catalogs are usually printed on 8 1/2 x 11 sheets of
paper, then folded in half along the length, and simply slipped
inside the covers of a magazine or the folds of a newspaper.
Often-times, a mini-catalog is folded and sent out as a
self-mailer. Both of these methods of obtaining circulation are
very profitable.

  A book-selling "mini-catalog" is made up of a "full-page
commercial" on the front page. This is your main sales thrust, or
primary attempt to sell a "featured" book with ease of your
mailings. The second, third, and half of the last page of the
min-catalog should be two columns of listings of other books you
have to offer.

  Each listing should consist of the title of the book offered,
followed by a short description of either the book itself, or how
the book can benefit the buyer. This is then followed by the
catalog number of the book, and the price.

  The bottom half of the page of your min-catalog should be
devoted to your customer order coupon. The "mini-catalog" should
be typeset, and printed on a different color of paper for each
mailing. Recent sales results indicate that the better quality
paper your mini-catalog is printed on, the more sales it brings
in for you.

  Two major publishers who are currently supplying ready-made
catalogs for your use in generating business are;

  PREMIER PUBLISHERS of Forth Worth, TX, and WILSHIRE BOOKS of N.
Hollywood, Ca.

  Write to them on your letterhead, and ask for samples of their
promotional material.

  Once you've got a mini-catalog with which to advertise your
books, you must bring all your efforts to bear on the problem of
obtaining maximum circulation of your mini-catalog among the
prospective book buyers.

  The easiest and least expensive method is as follows: Check at
your newspaper offices for a listing of all their distributors
and/or route carriers. Contact these people and ask them to give
you a price they would charge to include one of your
mini-catalogs with each paper they sell or deliver. Determine how
many "min-catalogs" you'll need for this kind of distributors,
have that number of min-catalogs printed, hand them out to your
contracted distributors and newspaper carriers; then sit back and
prepare to fill book orders. It's simple and easy, but best of
all it really results in big profits for your book-selling
business!

  Another simple method would be to line up students from
different junior high schools in your area, and pay them each $10
per thousand to deliver your min-catalogs door-to-door. If you
have junior high school age children, this could be the easiest
and least expensive method of distribution for you.

  Major cities also have professional distributing services which
deliver advertising material to the residents. Check your local
phone directory for their names and addresses.

  The orders which you develop through the local distribution
method can be filled by mail.

  To expand your market beyond the local area, you need to
solicit the business by mail. Several excellent books are
available on developing sales by mail. A few are listed here.
Order from the distributor who supplied this report to you.

#366 FORTUNES WITH BOOKS MANUAL, BY LEE HOWARD...$7.95
#360 FREE ADVERTISING FOR MAIL ORDER DEALERS....$10.00
#365 &50,000 A YEAR FROM MAIL ORDER ADS.........$10.00


THE END OF THIS REPORT