---
title: 3605
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

BIG MONEY WITH FOLIOS

One of the easiest, if not the easiest, ways of getting started
with a profitable mail order business of your own is through the
promotion and sale of money-making folios or reports.

Generally, the beginner purchases a series of these
reports-complete with reproduction rights. He reproduces them in
whatever quantity and as often as he likes-usually at a cost of
less than 5 cents each, sends out an advertising circular.

As has been said so many times in countless mail order advice
publications, you never really make any real money until you
control the product. When you buy the reproduction rights to a
set of reports, you control the product. You can advertise the
sale of these reports individually via national classified ads,
and follow up with your advertising circular as a "full page"
advertisement or send it out as part of your direct mail
packages. The bottom line is simply that when the orders come in,
you keep all the money for yourself, reproduce the reports for
pennies and end up with a profit that's beyond the belief of
other people in other types of businesses.

It's virtually impossible to convince most people that you can
make a profit of at least $1.00 per sheet of paper, but it's
being done every day of the week, and is actually the easiest way
there is of making money! Give it a try yourself, and you'll
probably be flabbergasted too.

The best part of getting started with these folios is that you'll
have an opportunity to see how they're written, precisely what
kind of information they contain, and from there, the background
you'll need to start writing similar folios and reports of your
own.

Let's say you send for the group of reports on the many ways of
making money in various small businesses. Just as soon as you get
them, read them over carefully. Make sure you understand and
fully comprehend the information and instructions in each report
because any one of them-all of them-are very definitely
problem-solving reports that can aid you in your own quest for
success. Jot down a few notes relative to those you want to use,
and/or pertinent information you might want to incorporate into a
report of your own-one that you write yourself and not only set
the selling price on, but also who or how people sell it.

The next thing is to take this series of reports to some of the
print shops in your area and ask them for a bid on their costs to
print up an inventory supply for you. When you finally find a
shop that'll print them at a cost that's agreeable to you, have a
supply printed up. After they're printed, be sure to separate
your originals or masters from the supply you're going to be
selling. It's best to keep these master copies in a file cabinet
or someplace completely removed or separate from where you store
your inventory.

You're just about ready to start raking in the big money-but
first-you have to get the word out that you've got these reports
ready, and for sale to anyone that wants to buy a copy. We
suggest that you select one of the reports you fell will interest
the most people-Such a report might be "How to Get Big $$$....."

Make up a simple classified ad: FREE REPORT!
"How to Get Big $$ in Your Mailbox--Everyday! Send SASE to CASH,
Box 123, Anywhere USA 01020. Place this ad in as many of the
national coverage mail order publications as you can afford to
advertise in, and then hang on for a deluge of orders.

With each order, simply take a copy of this report and include it
with a copy of your advertising flyer listing all of your other
reports---with your name/address in place ours, of course-and
send it back to them in the self-addressed, stamped envelope that
they sent you. In most cases, you'll find that about half of
those people who have sent in for a copy of the free report, will
turn around and send you $15 for the complete set with
reproduction rights.

Simple-easy-and with a profit potential in the hundreds of
thousands of dollars because you'll find that every one of these
reports will sell for years and years to come!

As mentioned earlier, you should study the reports you buy and
from them, eventually write your own reports, making up your own
advertising circulars, and not only set your own selling price,
but control the number of people selling them. Writing and
selling simple "business success" reports is how most of the
"biggies" in mail order got their start-it's the bread and butter
of most mail order businesses-and the only right way to go if
you're trying to make it with a minimum investment.

 GET STARTED RIGHT AWAY:

Send for your FREE listing of the many "How To" reports that you
can purchase and reproduce for pennies and sell for dollars.
Infopreneur Box 96, Purdy, MO 65734-0096.