---
title: 3608
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

AN EASY START TO MAIL ORDER!

Listing names of Big Mail Requestors, and sending out packages of
Big Mail is an easy way to get your start in the business of
selling by mail.

There are a number of mail operators pulling in an easy, extra
thousand dollars a month, by what you'd hardly call work--doing
nothing more than receiving money for advertising a list of
people's names interested in receiving Big Mails, and sending out
envelopes stuffed to overflowing with Big Mail.

Regardless of where you live, your age, teenager or senior
citizen, man or woman, there is no reason you can't do the
same---pull in an extra thousand dollars a month, with the same
idea.

Getting started is NOT as easy as turning on a water tap, but
then your initial investment will amount to practically
nothing---And the requirements upon your time shouldn't amount to
more than a few hours a week.

First, let's define the market---Who wants Big Mails, and why
they want it...Big Mails are wanted or should be wanted by just
about every person in business, especially those involved in
selling  product via the mails, in order to keep himself abreast
of who is doing what, how they're doing it, the new offers being
made and the newcomers to the business. The reasoning is because
of the time and postage saved by automatically receiving all of
this information, as opposed to writing and mailing letters to
each individual offer you see that arouses your interest, not to
mention the time saved searching thru all the different
publications to discover these things. Some people--the dreamers
and the lonely--like to receive Big Mails simply for the sake of
having mail delivered to them every day. There's no sure way of
determining which of your Big Mail Requestors these people
are--so you just forget about it, and send your Big Mails to
everybody on your list. Besides, the actual number of people in
this category are fewer than you might suspect.

Now, let's define what's inside a Big Mail Package you or your
buyers--Big Mail Requestors--will be receiving in the
mail---Generally, you'll find a least one, but usually several
publications: ad sheets, tabloid mail order newspapers, and an
occasional newsletter. The rest is almost always a collection of
various product advertising circulars. At least two of these
circulars will be from the person sending the package to you in
the first place.

Many, if not most of the beginners in this business, first get
their name listed as a Big Mail Requestor, on as many Big Mails
Wanted list as possible. They then Save the mail they receive and
once a week, every other week, or once a month, they stuff their
accumulated Big Mail into individual envelopes and send it to the
names on their list of people who have paid to be listed as Big
Mail Requestors.

Don't forget---All Big Mail suppliers always include a least a
couple of two-sided circulars of their own. These are usually
Commission Circulars--product advertising circulars, sometimes
provided by a prime source or distributor with a blank space on
the reply coupon for the dealer doing the mailing to rubber stamp
his business name and address. More often than not, the
distributor furnishes the dealer with "camera ready" copies of
circulars to use. The dealer takes these circularss to a quick
print shop, and has several thousand copies made up with his
business name and address imprinted on each circular.

Everytime you send out a package of Big Mail, always include two
advertising circulars of your own--circulars that may interest
the recipient and cause him or her to send to you for the product
or service offered.

These can be commission--dropship--products that you have
devised, produced and are selling.

Incidentally, the best way to go with commission circulars is to
ask for or get a camera-ready copy of the original, and have a
large quantity of them printed locally with your name in place of
the supplier. This will save you hours of very boring work
entailed in rubber stamping your name on several thousand
circulars. If for whatever reason it's too expensive to get your
circulars printed locally, then check around for a printer who
does business by mail, and will make your circulars for you with
your name and address on the ordering coupon. Also it will almost
always pay for you to have the printer fold your circulars for
you before he ships them to you, he can do it all in about an
hour, while it could take you a couple of days to a week or
longer to fold 5,000 circulars yourself.

You can include as many product circulars in your package of Big
Mail as you want, but..It's been proven time and time again that
three very good--outstanding--circulars related to the same idea,
bring back more responses than envelope overflowing with
circulars. What I'm saying is that a circular inviting the 
recipient to send for Book #317, " How To Make Money Writing &
Selling Simple Information", plus  a circular on Book #365"
$50,000 a Year from Mail Order Ads",will pull far more inquires
than 10 or 12 different circulars inviting the recipient to send
for a mixture of related items.

The reason is quite simple---After about 3 circulars you begin to
overwhelm the recipient with opportunities. In reality, he'd like
all of the books you're offering but he only wants to spend so
much and therefore he's faced with a decision of which ones to
send for---and more often than not, he ends up not sending for
any of them.


Including as mini-catalog listing of your offerings is quite
different, and generally acceptable to most people receiving big
mail packages, or product advertising in the mail. Generally,
this is regarded as not so much loose paper and something they
can hang on to for a while and maybe order from, much the same as
they order from Wards or Sears Catalog.

When you've got your name listed on a number of lists as Big Mail
Requestor, ad after you've got a steady supply of this kind of
mail coming to you, start placing ads of your own in some larger
circulation ad sheets and other mail order publications as a Big
Mail Supplier. For ideas on ads to use, glance thru any mail
order publication and come up with one you think will bring the
most replies.

Now you're on your way with the basic plan and "know-how" for a
fast start as a Big Mail Supplier.

In order to expand your big mail operations into a real
money-making business, compile a list of magazines, newsletters,
mail order tabloids and ad sheets.Then draft a letter to these
publishers, advising them that you supply them with several
hundred prospective subscribers each month. Explain that your
prospects come from responses to national advertising, which you
run at no cost to them, the publishers...Go on to explain that
your national advertising offers Free Trail Subscriptions to the
nation's leading money-making publications, and that you feel
your list will be incomplete without his publication...

Sweeten the pot further by detailing how you'll be sending the
names and addresses of these fresh prospects on peel 'n stick
labels---that these mailing lists will belong to him on
receipt---and that you encourage him to copy them for follow up
mailings...

You charge each of these publishers $100 a year for this service,
and even when you have 100-150 signed, keep looking for and
attempting to sign more publishers. Don't ever stop soliciting
publishers, and go after the biggest as well as the very smallest
of them...

With a number of accounts signed and paid, you place an ad such
as the following, in several national publications:

FILL YOU MAILBOX WITH OPPORTUNITY! World's leading Money Making
publications! Free trail subscriptions! $2 for processing to (
your name and address).

When the responses to your ads come in, type the names and
addresses onto "master" sheets or put them into your computer
system as respondents to your advertising. Sometime around the
15th of each month, copy your masters onto the number of customer
sheets of labels you need, and send them out. You bank the money
from your advertising respondents.

One hundred publishers time $100 each means $10,000 per year... 
A minim of 200 Respondents to your advertising each month means
another $4,800 per year...And then, by contracting with a
reputable list broker such as Group One Communications, 2321 NE
Dixie Highway, Jensen Beach, Fl 33457---to handle the rental of
the "Hot" names you accumulate each month, you should be able to
double or triple these figures...And $30,000 income your first
year in the Big Mail business is nothing to "cry about" at all!!!

Meanwhile you've got all these new prospects, to whom you can
send your own sales materials...You can also expand your services
and become a subscription agency, a publications distributor, or
even a mail order publications Advertising Agency...

You could compile, publish and sell directories of newsletters,
tabloids and ad sheets...Directories of Mail Order
Associations...Mailing lists of people wanting Big Mails...or
mailing lists of people want Commission Circulars.