---
title: 3614
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

MONEY-MAKERS GUIDE TO EASY
                            MAIL ORDER RICHES


Selling products and/or services through the mail is one of the
fastest growing methods of doing business in the world today.
It's estimated that sales for 1983 will top the 100 billion
dollar mark!

Millions of people from all walks of life, and in all parts of
the world are "into" mail order, with more coming in every day.
Some of them are grossing in the millions, others are chalking up
sales figures of several hundred per month, and there are others
who only give it a quick try, make a few dollars and drop out.

Mail order selling appeals to almost everybody with a desire to
get rich. Generally, it doesn't require complicated equipment, a
lot of start-up capital, or an expensive office. Mail order is a
kind of business that can be run by anyone from the comfort of
his or her own home.

About all that's required for success in mail order is selling is
an understanding of what you're doing--it's not a game or kind of
thing you want to just give a quick try...It's a way of doing
business, a requires a good understanding of what people buy, why
they buy, and an operational plan that will lead you to success.

In order to make it big in mail order, you must understand that
it's a selling business. Thus, you've got to decide on what you
want to sell--who your buyers will be--and know why they buy, and
then, program your selling efforts in such a way that these
people will buy from you.

The best, and the easiest selling product or service--because it
has the greatest appeal to the most number of people--is
information that gives people knowledge or instructions that will
enable them to get rich. The bottom line is simply that everyone
in the world wants to know how they can get rich--without putting
forth too much of an investment in either money, time or effort.

So, the first thing that you should do is some marketing
research: Look in all the publications running mail order
advertisements and opportunities--get a good understanding of
what they are doing--how they are doing it--and then formulate a
business plan of your own that will allow you to duplicate what
they're doing.

With get rich information or instructions--and knowing that to
make the really big money you have to be the author or a prime
distributor--there are two ways to go. You can become the author
with all the involved headaches and demands upon your time, or
you can buy the reproduction rights and re-sale or distribute
them as your own.

As the author, you'll have to do the research, the writing, the
printing, advertising, and order fulfillment.

As a prime source distributor, you can pay a one-time fee for the
reproduction rights--then spend your time and money on selling
efforts. You still have to handle the printing, the advertising,
and order fulfillment--but you have the advantage of "choosing
and picking" only what you feel will make money for you. With
most writers, only about 10% of what they spend hours, weeks,
even months researching and writing, ever sells for them. Writers
are just not geared to the profitable marketing of their
materials.

Your initial marketing research should give you a good idea of
what is selling--what the people are buying--and which titles of
any particular author you want to promote and sell for your own
profits.

The next thing is to look through all the publications you can
find that carry mail order ads--those that run issue after issue
(but not those run as fillers by the publisher) are usually the
ones that are not making money for the people selling them(or you
can bet they wouldn't still be running them).

Decide which kind of program you want to run, and how you want to
make money...The best ad to run is one that offers a free report
relative to a money making plan. Your ad might read: FREE REPORT!
Insider's Secrets to Your Own Million Dollar Multi-Level Empire.
Send SASE to (your name and address).

In reply to each of the responses you get to this ad,  you send
them a one page report that briefly explains your multi-level
secrets, with an invitation at the bottom for those really
interested in multi-level marketing, to send in another $15 or
$20 for your complete multi-level marketing "how-to" manual. You
can then fill up their SASE with other offers, such as the
availability of mailing lists for rent, a multi-level program of
your own, and a listing of other business success reports you're
offering.

At the same time, you compile the names and addresses of all the
people sending for either your free report or their own
materials, and you have the beginning of a mailing list of your
own that you can rent out over and over again at huge profits to
yourself.

Clip the stamps off the envelopes as you receive them, and save
them in an old shoe box. When you have a box full, you can sell
them to any number of stamp collectors, and pocket an easy $10 or
$15...

Save all the envelopes with return addresses, and when you've
accumulated a thousand or two of these, you can send them in to
list compilers and pocket another $50 to $100...

The other way of advertising is the offering of your report or
book for sale from the ad. Such an ad would read about like this:
Insider's Secrets to Your Own Million Dollar Multi-Level Empire.
Dynamic new reports shows the easy way. Send $3 to (your name and
address).

It's very difficult to sell anything directly from a classified
ad because there just isn't space enough in which to do a
complete job of selling. Thus, if you try to sell from a
classified ad, be sure to keep your selling price under $5...

A $3 item should pull well with a classified ad--A $5 item will
take at least a one inch display ad--a $20 item will take a well
written sales letter.

When you're just getting started in mail order selling, stick to
small classified ads--test the pulling power of your ad, and your
product, as well as the publication your ad runs in...

Analyze and practice rewriting some of the ads other people are
running--experiment, and run a few ads in only one or two
publications--and then build upon your success. In other words,
if your first ad costs you $30, and you take in $90--take that
$90 and run the same ad again, not only in the same publication,
but in a couple of other publications as well. Use your profits
to expand the exposure of your offer--let as many people as
possible see it.

It's important to note that you cannot expect to "live off" the
income from your beginning efforts. You have to have "other"
money to pay your lights, water, and gas bills.

Mail order success is built upon the wise investment of your
advertising dollars. Take $100 and run a classified ad for your
reports in one of the big national publications. Figuring that
from that first $100, you can take in $300, run the same ad again
in that publication, and at the same time in two other
publications. Thus, your real profits should triple--and if you
keep on reinvesting your profits in additional advertising
exposure--conceivably within six months or less you should be
hauling in several thousand dollars per month in profits.

For complete reproduction and re-sale/distribution rights on this
report, as well as a list of other reports that will make money
for you, just drop a line to the mail order dealer from whom you
bought this one.