---
title: 3615
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

HOW TO RECRUIT DEALER/DISTRIBUTORS TO SELL FOR YOU

Everyone dreams of owning a super money-making business where
other people do all the work, and their only duties involve the
approval of sales and bank deposit slips. It's the only way to go
as a business owner.

The problem is however, not too many people seem to know how to "
put together" such a business. What you're really talking about
is an operation where you supply the product and other people do
the selling-A prime source with a dealer or distributor network.

Assuming that you have the product, you'll also need a sales kit
and plenty of impressive, eye-catching promotional materials. If
you don't supply or offer to supply materials with which your
sales force can sell the product, you'll have a hard time
enlisting people to sell for you, and you probably won't set any
sales records relative to your product either.

Let's assume that you've just written a book-HOW TO MAKE $100,000
PER YEAR AT HOME, WITH YOUR TYPEWRITTER..Okay, in order to sell
this book, you've got to get the word out to the people that you
have such a book available. Advertising on your own is going to
cost you money, and unless you've got a good understanding of the
advertising business, you may never reach your full sales
potential-besides, the time and effort expended in finding the
"right" place to advertise, the placing of your ads, monitoring
your returns, and the frustrations of dealing with the curiosity
seekers, will quickly wear you out. Such is not the way you
envisioned your life when you got the idea to write the book, get
rich and enjoy a life of leisure.

So, just as soon as you've got your book written-the book is your
product-get some "bids" out to the advertising agencies in your
area, the freelancers, and the advertising department at your
local colleges. What you want these people to do is make up an
advertising circular promoting and selling your book. Now then,
in a different-maybe smaller-type, and kind of like an
afterthought-at the bottom of this circular, you include the
phrase: Dealer Inquiries Invited...

Look over all the submitted circulars and choose the one (s) you
consider the best. then have a supply of these printed up at your
local print shop, obtain a mailing list of opportunity seekers,
and get them in the mail.

Just as soon as you've dropped these first circulars in the mail,
start writing your dealer/distributor letter. This should be
simply an explanation describing how you will dropship orders for
their customers, allowing them a certain commission on each sale
and, the price per copy you'll sell your book to them in
wholesale quantity lots. At the same time, this letter should
include a copy of your advertising circular, and an explanation,
reassuring these dealers that they can reproduce this circular
with their name/address in place of yours on the order coupon.
You might even include a brief note that you will pre-print these
circulars with the dealer's name/address and ship them to him for
a wholesale printing price. All of this boils down to your
supplying him or her with whatever is needed to promote and sell
copies of your book for you. The bottom line is simply that you
can only reach so many people, and sell so many books yourself.
With 1,000 people helping you-mailing out advertising circulars
and running small ads in hundreds of opportunity seeker
publications-your costs of running your business will be minimal
while your book sale skyrocket.

Remember though, you need an impressive, eye-catching advertising
circular or mailing package for your sales force to use as their
own, and you need a clear easy-to-understand books in wholesale
quantity lots, and the availability of advertising materials for
your dealers.

The advertising circular should be dual purpose- you send it out
to solicit sales of your product, and at the same time, recruit
dealers who are impressed with your advertising materials and
feel that they can make some money for themselves by promoting
your product. Again, this needn't be much more than a simple
"throw-way" line at the bottom of the circular: Dealer Inquiries
Invited...

Now that you're organized thus far, the next thing is to contract
to run as many small DEALERS WANTED ads in as many of the mail
order publications as possible. Such ads can be either a
classified or a small, but eye-catching one inch display ad: 

        DEALERS WANTED! Outstanding new book. Sells
        like wildfire! Everybody wants a copy! Make 
        $10 profit on every $15 sale! Details for 
        SASE to:   

Basically that's all your "dealers wanted" ad needs to say, and
then with plenty of exposure in all the mail order publications
over a period of six or eight months, you should have hundreds of
people all over the country selling your book for you. Simple,
easy, almost cut and dried, but it works!

In building my own business from scratch over the past 10 years,
I've found that once you've established a basic
dealer/distributor network-or a list of people selling for
you,you can add hundreds of related products, and the orders just
keep coming in. Give it a try and see for yourself just how easy
and profitable it can be for you!