---
title: 3617
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

HOW TO SUCCEED WITH YOUR OWN MONEY-MAKING AD SHEET

Publishing and distributing a mail order ad sheet can be very
profitable.  They are simple and easy to produce, with most
quick print shops able to handle the printing at fairly low
cost.  The  important consideration is that you can use them to
pull in advertising dollars for yourself, as a free advertising
media for your own products, and as an exchange medium with
which to get greater exposure for you own ads.



Before starting an ad sheet, you should plan it all out - decide
on an interesting, informative title, choose a masthead, lay out
your columns for size, determine if it is to be a simple 8 1/2 x
11 single sheet of paper or an 11 x 17 sheet folded in half. 
you'll also need to know your production cost for the number you
intend to have printed, and the postage cost to mail them out.



Most of the ad sheets start out as single sheets of paper, 8 1/2
x 11, printed on both sides.  Usually, the front side is divided
into three equal columns about 2 1/4 inches wide, with a 1/2
inch margin from the edge of the paper on both sides and top and
bottom.



Assuming that the space occupied by your title, masthead and
listing of rates for advertisers interested in placing an ad
with you is two inches deep, this leaves you about 24 inches of
advertising space to sell on the front side.  Figuring a cost of
$50 for 1,000 copies of such an ad sheet, printed both sides,
and a third-class bulk-rate postage of $110, this means that
your 24 inches of ad space will have to be sold at a rate of
$6.25 each in order to break even. This means:  You have to sell
all of the ad space on the front of your ad sheet at $6.25 each
in order to break even.  This means:  You have to sell all of
the ad space on the front of your ad sheet at $6.25 per ad - and
then expect to make your profits from the sale of the back side
of your ad sheet.  Actually, it would be feasible to charge
$7.00 per inch for the space on the front side, and carry you
own full page ad on the back side.  At any rate, don't box
yourself into a loss situation where you can't afford to place
your own ads in your ad sheet.



You get ads by making up an advertising solicitation sales
letter and sending it out to as many mail order dealers as you
can find.  You can also run ads in other people's publications,
inviting the readers to check with you regarding placement of an
ad in your publication.  And of course, you'll be wanting to
work out some exchange advertising deals (whereby another
publisher runs your ad in his publication, and you run his in
exchange).  From the experience of many, many publishers, this
can be one of the most effective ways of getting your ads run,
at low/no cost, and it is recognized to be successful in the
field of Mail Order.



You probably won't be able to fill up all of your available ad
space with paid ads until you're well established - but no
problem - first you fill your ad space with paid ads, and then
you fill in the empty space with ads of your own.  Some
beginning advertisers fill a part of their empty space with
complementary ads for other mail order operators, send them a
copy of the issue in which the complimentary ad appears, and
invite them to continue the ad on a "paid" basis from there. 
Many of them will appreciate the favor and send you a check or
money order to continue running the ad.



If you undertake the publication of an ad sheet, be sure to
consider the possibilities of sending out 100 to 1,000 copies of
your ad sheet to other mail order operators to rubber stamp
their names/addresses as co-publishers and mail out for you. 
Thus, if you had 50 other mail order operators sending out 100
copies each of your ad sheet, you'd be talking about a
circulation of 5,000 copies plus the number of copies you mail
out.  If you can get this kind of program going, you'll quickly
build your reputation as well as your circulation, and at the
bottom line, your profits.



Some ad sheet publishers, once they've established themselves
and are putting out an impressive publication, set up
distributor networks.  Generally, they run ads calling for
distributor/dealers and asking for a $5 to $10 registration fee.
 In reply to the registration application, they send out a
letter explaining that each distributor can buy at half price,
so many copies of each issue of the ad sheet, rubber stamp their
name on each copy, and send them out as their own. In return,
the distributors usually get 50% of the incoming advertising
orders, a half-price ad for themselves, and an opportunity to
sell subscriptions.



The bottom line relative to becoming a successful ad sheet
publisher has to do with keeping your production costs -
printing and mailing - as low as possible, while putting out a
quality product that other people in the mail order business
will want to advertise in - while at the same time using it as a
advertising/selling vehicle for your own products.



My advice is that almost everyone involved in mail order selling
should have some sort of ad sheet - if for no other reason than
as a means to an end - an advertising vehicle for your own
products, an extra income form advertising revenues, and as an
exchange media with which to gain greater exposure for your own
products in other people's publications.  Once you've got an ad
sheet, or any kind of publication set up and being seen by other
mail order operators, you'll quickly gain stature and a certain
amount of prestige.



As with any business, your ultimate success depends on your own
feasibility studies, and your "sharp-pencil" planning completed
before you order your first issue printed.  Think about it,
weigh the pro's and con's, then go with your decision.



