---
title: 3619
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

HOW TO START A PEN PAL CLUB

Pen pal clubs are very easy to start, and can provide a very
comfortable "by mail" income for the sharp operators.

The best way to operate is via monthly newsletter, and listing of
new members. We've found that a simple one page, typewritten
sheet is all you need to get started.This should be, or should
include a quick run-down on what your members are up to..ie:
Janice C is planning to vacation at Tahoe next month; Lisa S is
attending night classes for a real estate license; John R. is
thinking of changing jobs-he wants something more involved in
advertising sales; Bob L. is setting up his own Carpet Cleaning
Service; Dave A. is wanting to move to Denver...

This kind of reader membership involvement will get your
"newsletter" off to a running start, and keep your members loyal
to you because of the "gossip" you pass along in each issue.

You follow up your "gossip story" with either a question and
answer session or letters from readers a-la Ann Landers or Dear
Abby. Complete the newsletter with a short story on how to meet
men or women, what to say and how to develop a friendship. The
back page, or extra page, is then a listing of men and
women--including a short description of each, and their
addresses--wanting to correspond with or meet people with similar
tastes.

You'll need a typewriter, paper, and names of people interested
in writing and receiving Pen Pal letters. You can quickly secure
a start with names answering ads(classifieds) placed in local
papers, and several out-of-town papers you are familiar with, and
by checking your news stand for the magazines that carry such
ads--it won't take long to get a basic "100" to begin your
operation.

You should have letterhead and imprinted mailing envelopes and
return envelopes 1000 of each for $100.

Next, make up a sample copy of your newsletter, and an
application sales letter that will explain your membership fee of
about $10 per year for the newsletter, plus $1 per month each
time you carry a member's name & address in your "correspondents
wanted" section. Be sure to ask for reports on what members are
doing, and encourage them to bring up to date from time to
time---this keeps the "personal touch" gossip supplied.

Now, you send out your newsletter samples, with your sales
letter/membership application, to the list of names we've
supplied you with, or you may have purchased from other sources.

At the same time, you should run an advertisement in as many
small mail order publications, with names and addresses of
publishers, order Directory #3709 for $3 from your distributor.
your ad read something like this;

Pen Pal Listings! nationwide circulation! 
$1 to: Your name, address & zip code.

Tom's pen Pal letter! Monthly club news and membership     
listings! $1 to : your name, address & zip code.

Of course, you'll want to keep records on all your members, and
continue to up-date the listings you carry but basically that is
all there is to getting started. You could even run ads of this
kind in your local newspapers expect a good response. We
definitely recommend that you send for sample copies of other Pen
Pal bulletins to see how they operate and what ideas of theirs
you can adapt for use in your newsletter. By all means, become a
"brower" and look thru all the magazines related to pen pals and
mail order introductions everytime you pass a magazine display
rack.

Be sure to get your newsletters out regularly, and don't stop
advertising. keep up your efforts to sell as many issues of each
publication as you can, expand your membership list, and get as
many new listings for each issue as you possibly can.

Something you might want to consider--3 back issues of your
publication for 3 dollars, or as a free bonus to all new
subscribers. You could carry this idea as a free bonus in your
advertising, and as a special offer in your newsletter.

You might also want to expand your income potential by offering
booklets, books, tapes, motivational and informational. As the
dealer who supplied this report to give you all his listings.

By keeping good records of all the mail you receive, you can also
sell or rent name lists of people who have responded to your
offerings to other mail order dealers. Real opportunities exist
for sales mentioned in the paragraph above---the opportunities
limited only by your imagination.