---
title: 3702
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

HOW TO PARLAY ANY MULTI-LEVEL PROGRAM INTO A MILLION DOLLARS

Multi-level marketing is definitely the way to go for people
aspiring to have more than just enough to get by on. Most of the
world's leading economic forcasters say that by the turn of the
century, fully 75% of the world's consumer business will be
conducted via multi-level marketing plans.

The thing to do is to learn all you can about this method of
selling how it works, and why it works--and then to get going
with a multi-level marketing program that can accumulate a
fortune for you. Make no mistake about it, multi-level marketing
has made a lot of people very rich already, and will make a lot
more people even richer in the coming years.

Multi-level marketing is based upon the idea of each person
involved selling only to his or her friends, with each of these
people in turn, introducing their friends into the program. It's
definitely an "endless chain" idea that has unlimited
money-making potential.

Theoretically, everybody knows or comes into contact with an
average of 100 different people each week. If only 10 of those
people were to give you $10 per week, you would have an income of
$100 per week. And then, if these people were to duplicate your
efforts, passing back to you, $1 for each new person they
enlisted into the program, and then each person recruited
perpetuated the program, you income would soon be astronomical!

Undoubtedly, you've heard the story of how you can become rich
simply by saving a penny a day, and doubling it each day for 30
days. and then, there are the pyramid or chain letter schemes
that we've all been offered. Multi-level marketing, in principle,
works the same way, with the only difference being in the product
offered for sale.

All of these programs work to some degree--because there are
government restrictions and laws against the perpetuation of
these ideas--most of them make a big splash when they are first
introduced, and then quickly die out. However, the concept of
initiating a program that sells itself via an endless chain will
always be popular because it holds the promise of bringing riches
if only the chain isn't broken.

So, multi-level marketing appeals to everybody because it's an
opportunity for all the participants to get rich with a minimum
investment, and very little time or effort or involvement.

It works because everybody wants to become rich. it's an idea
that anyone--regardless of education, background or basic
financial status--can perpetuate from the privacy of his or her
own home.


The basic fallacy of multi-level marketing is in the number of
people each individual participant can easily enlist into the
program. After you've talked to all your relatives, your
neighbors, co-workers, and friends across town, you're more or
less stymied as to new people to bring into the program.

The bottom line is simply that you cannot recruit everybody you
talk to--in fact, if you enlist 10% of the people you attempt to
interest in the program, you'll be doing very well. You're going
to get some rejections, and these rejections are basically what
turns most people off--deflates their ego, drains their
enthusiasm, and in the end, is the primary reason they drop out.

Regardless of what you sell, you must always have a gaol in
mind--you intend to sell 10 units of a product or recruit 10 new
people into your program between now and the first of the month.
you've got to believe that you can do it--want to do it--and then
get out and beat the bushes until you do it! Once you've achieved
this first gaol, you should take a day off and reward yourself
with a night on the town or the splurging you've always wanted.

But then, after setting a goal for yourself, and then proving
that you can achieve it, you should set a new gaol for yourself--
if you recruited 10 new people into your program last month, then
this month, you're going to bring in 15 new members.

You're going to make the really big money in multi-level
marketing by selling "business start-up kits," and not really
from spending time inspiring or motivating the people you've
already brought into the program. In other words, sell the
program to as many people as possible, and count on the
motivational/money-making opportunities with-in your dealer
start-up kit to cause them to put forth the effort to get out and
try to make some money on their own. In the end, and as the old
saying goes: you can lead a horse to water, but you can't make
him drink it--any time and or energy spend "calling back" on the
people you've already sold, is going to cost you money and limit
your gross income. To be successful in selling--and this is the
secret to multi-level riches--you must present your program to as
many people as possible. Close the sale with your first
presentation, and let the buyer either get with it, or die from
his own lack of initiative.

It's as simple as that--the more people you present your program
to, the more sales you're going to make. Don't worry about the
people who have already bought from you--they either will or they
won't and there's nothing you can do about it.

Obviously, if you spend all your time on the telephone inviting
people over to a Special Opportunity Party at your house, and
then another 3 -hours presenting your program to them, it's going
to take you a long time to present your program to 10,000 people
and make $10,000...


And, your costs to rent a hall--advertise--and present a seminar
progarm--will amount to more than you take in. If you have the
initial promotional abilities, the credit and/or cash, and a
really dynamic program--you can make it big, and quickly, by
staging seminar-type meetings at the rate of 3 to 5 per week.
Still, this is expensive and time consuming-- a lot of work on
your part, and not the easiest, most profitable way to go.

The only logical way to go--to reach as many people as possible
for the least amount of money and effort on your part--is via the
mails. In other words, the marrying of your multi-level marketing
efforts to mail order will be the least expensive and most
profitable for you.

You can spend out 50,000 sales letters and multi-level program
brochures in one month, and theoretically make $50,000 from an
expenditure of $10,000 or less--a return of $5 for every dollar
invested, which isn't bad...

Here's our recommendation: 

1) Write a short, one-page report outlining the basic Success
Secrets of muli-level marketing. You can tag-line this report
with an invitation for the readers to send for a complete or more
detailed manual or tape relative to multi-level how-to; a
directory or current listing of money-making multi-level
programs; or even a listing of other reports relative to
money-making home-based businesses you have for sale.

2) Once you have such a report, the next thing for you to do is
advertise. Write an ad such as: FREE REPORT!... Money-making
secrets of multi-level marketers. SASE to Your name, address,
city, state, zip.

3) Place this ad in one of the national publications carrying
lots of mail order advertisements--such as The National Inquirer,
American Business, Money-making Opportunities, Entrepreneur,
Income Opportunities, Speciality Salesman or any one of the
hundreds of other such publications. It is our recommendation
that you contract to run such an ad over three issues. This will
give your ad maximum exposure, and should result in an
overwhelming number of responses for you.

4) In reply to each SASE you receive, first list the name and
address of each respondent, along with the date received and what
you send back to them, on 3 by 5 cards. Arrange these cards in
zip code and alphabetical order, and store them in an old shoe
box. Then, you take your one page report and along with your
multi-level marketing brochure--your program--you stuff the
envelopes and drop them off in your nearest mail box.

If you ad runs in the National Inquirer, you could expect to get
1,000 or more responses each time it runs. So far, your cost is
for the ad--the printing of the one page report--and your
multi-level program brochures. From these 1,000 free reports you
send out you should be able to convert about 300 into new members
into the multi-level program you're promoting.

Thus, for an initial cost of $30 for the ad--$100 for the MLM
brochures--and the time it takes you to stuff the envelopes--300
buyers at $10 each will give you a gross of $3,000... And that's
how you parlay your multi-level program into a fortune, using
mail order selling techniques.

One very important thing to always remember relative to starting
a new business: You cannot take any money coming in from you
business advertising, and use it to pay your "everyday" bills. In
other words, you cannot expect to use this money to live on---you
have to pour it back into your business to perpetuate that flow
of income. 

Whenever you advertise, in addition to replies to your offer, you
can expect a "ton of mail" from other people trying to interest
you in what they're selling. Basically, you should go thru all of
this "junk mail' and look over, save the stuff that looks
interesting, is well done, or that you can learn from, and
perhaps "lift" some ideas from for use in your own selling
efforts.

Compile the names of the people and/or companies sending these
offers to you. Just as with those replying to advertised offer,
jot down the date and a short description of the material
received--and then send them a sales letter/brochure about your
multi-level program. In sending out sales letter/brochures to
thee people, you don't have to send them out immediately. You can
list these people in an "incoming offer notebook," and then
include them with your regular direct mail packages you send out.
But for sure, clip the stamps and save the incoming envelopes
along with those from your bona fide replies.

5) So you've spent $150 and made about $3,000 in a period of
about three months. Now you want to perpetuate this income, and
build it to twice that amount coming in every month. What you do
is take the income from that first ad, and increase your
advertising. In other words, use it to buy ad space in as many
other publications as possible.

If you first $150 brought in $3,000 from exposure in just one
publication, $2,000 will bring you $50,000 from exposure in 10
different publications. Continue multiplying your advertising
exposure and it won't be long before you will be "snowed under"
with dollar bills, checks and money orders. remember this though,
you cannot really spend any of that money on yourself until the
business is bringing in several thousand dollars per month on a
regular basis. You have to pour it back into the business in
order to allow your business to reach its full potential.

6) Make up a one-page "Money Tree" circular, similar to ours
which included a reference material within this report. Be sure
that you keep the cost to "find out about your program" to $2 or
less. Then, with a listing of money making reports such as
ours--printed on the back of your "Money Tree" circular--shotgun
this out to as many people as possible.

We've had outstanding success handing them out at local shopping
centers, passing them out door-to-door, and by including them as
"ride-alongs" with our bulk junk mailing program. The important
thing again, is to present your offer to as many different people
as possible--particularly to those people with an itch to get
rich quick...

In addition to circulating you "Money Tree" flyers by hand, you
should rent or buy-on a regular basis--as many different mailing
lists on income opportunity seekers as you can afford, and
shotgun one of your circulars to each of these names. The
publisher of this report (PREMIER) has names and addresses of
customers for $35 per thousand, on peel and stick labels. You can
also find inexpensive mailing list suppliers in just about any
publication that carries mail order advertising.

For sure, you should spend the money to obtain a 3rd class bulk
rate mailing permit, and then use it to send out all your
mailings. Start by sending out 250 pieces per week, and then
gradually increase your volume to the point where you're sending
out 5,000 or more pieces per week, and you'll be in business.

7) So the secrets to getting rich in mail order have to do with
presenting a free offer most people will find hard to pass up.
You make your money from whatever you send out in reply to the
people taking you up on the free offer.

You send them a copy of the free report, plus your multi-level
marketing brochure. You can stop there if you want, but there's
lots more money to be made just from these initial efforts.

Follow-up offers to people who, themselves are out beating the
buses attempting to drum up extra income, is the way the game is
played. So, when you receive all these names nd addresses of
people interested in receiving a report on multi-level marketing,
you compile the names and rent or sell them to other multi-level
operators.

Besides including your "Money Tree" circular, and the mailing
list rental offer, you should also include a one page circular
describing and offering for sale, a listing of your money-making
reports. And then, by soliciting co-op mailings from other mail
order operators, you'll have a "pretty full" envelope of offers
going out.

Finally, the one thing you must always bear in mind is how your
mailing package looks to the person receiving it. Your envelopes
should be professionally printed with your return address--your
sales letters should be written to impress the recipient; no
misspelled words or smudges from erasures or worn out
typewriters; and the eye-appeal of your coupons or offers which
are included; and by all means, the quality of your multi-level
brochure. Although multiple colored printing does tend to pull
better that just black and white, you can do very well starting
with just black and white materials so long a the image you
project is all professional. Photo-copying your offers hoping for
the best, just won't do. The more affluent you appear to be, fro
your envelope to each offer contained within, the better your
chances of making a sale.

So, that's how it's done--you can take these methods of how we've
done it, maybe even improve upon them a bit, and make tons of
money--or you can set everything aside and tell yourself that
you'll get started on it next week. The thing is, the
instructions are valid and the opportunity is here and
now--whatever you do is up to you.