---
title: 3706
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

HOW TO WRITE A FOLIO

Today, there are hundreds of enterprising men and women who
write simple research papers (known in the mail order trade as
FOLIOS) and sell them by mail.  In the pages that follow, I'll
show you how you can do the same.  I'll show you how to select a
subject, how to research it, how to write it, how to get it
printed, and how to sell it.

I'll show you the four ways to sell it.  If you are new to folio
selling, I'll show you which of the four ways would be the best
for you.  I hope you will read what follows very carefully and
very thoughtfully.  THERE ARE NO CATCHES.  I have nothing more
to sell you (unless you want to read some of the other folios
which I have written).  I hope the information which follows can
be of real benefit to you.  That is why I have written it!

EXACTLY WHAT IS A FOLIO?

A folio can be called a booklet, a pamphlet, a report, a
newsletter, a guide, an instruction manual, a plan, a
manuscript, etc. etc.  A folio is simply an easy-to-understand
manual which shows the reader "How To" do something that he does
not already know how to do.  Most folios show the reader...

*  How to start or expand a hobby

*  How to develop new abilities or qualities

*  How to start a new business or expand an old one

*  How to prepare for a new career

*  How to make or save money

*  How to spend leisure time.

A well written folio is authoritative, factual, and helpful.  It
should be written in simple, easily understood language.  It can
be anything from a brief two-page mimeographed report to a
professionally printed book bound in hardback cover.  People who
purchase folios by mail are interested in the information they
contain.  Seldom do they care what brand of paper the
information is printed on.

WHAT KIND OF FOLIOS ARE NOW BEING SOLD BY MAIL?

Pick up almost any magazine at a newsstand that carries
classified advertising and you will find ads written by people
who are selling their folios by mail.  Here are sample ads from
magazines lying here on my desk.

"Be secure, confident, successful!  Learn the secret of personal
power $2.00"

"Why grow old and die?  Li Chung Yun lived 256
years.  You could too!    learn how - $2.00"

"Secrets of the Spirit World!  Only 60 cents postpaid!"

"Guide to Witches Covens - $2.00"

"Traffic Tickets?  Beat them, step by step method.  $1.95
postpaid."

"Learning Bridge?  Send $2.95 for small 20 page guide."

"Fluorescent Tubes rejuvenated at no cost.  Instructions $1.00."

"Learn the secret of making every pair of slacks you sew fit
perfectly, Only $1.00"

HOW TO WRITE A FOLIO

"10 Wonder Working Prayers.  Enrich, strengthen your life!
$1.00 guaranteed."

"Enjoy camping inside your Volkswagon.  Do it yourself Plans -
$2.00'

"Homemade Cheese!  Hard soft, and cottage!  Make it yourself!
Easy.  Delicious.  Complete instructions, recipes $1.00"

"Toronto Area Job Opportunities - $1.00"

"Ship in Bottle.  Instructions, Drawing.  $1.00"


If you can produce a "How to Do It" Manual that is NOVEL,
INTERESTING and genuinely HELPFUL, you can do what the
advertisers above have done.  You can print it yourself and sell
it by mail!

WHAT SHOULD YOU WRITE ABOUT?

You should write

        * ONLY on subjects that REALLY interest you, and

        * on subjects that you already know something about.

For example, if you just love to cook, write a folio on cooking.
 If people like the first folio they buy from you, they will buy
other folios in the future, as long as they are on the same
basic subject.  If you write on a subject that really does not
interest you very much, you will be bored to death by the time
you get to your third folio!

Ask yourself... what do I do with my spare time?  Write a folio
about THAT!

HOW DO YOU RESEARCH THE FOLIO?

Make yourself an expert on the subject!  Talk to friends and
neighbors.  Ask questions. Read books, newspapers, and magazines
on the subject.  Ask your librarian for suggestions.  As you
read, KEEP NOTES ON EVERYTHING.  When you have read everything
you could lay your hands on, sit down and study your notes.
Read them over slowing and carefully.  Then lay the notes aside
and think about the whole subject for a day or two.  You will be
amazed at what your mind will do with the subject if you have
research it thoroughly!

HOW DO YOU WRITE IT?

Here's a tip from a professional writer.  Sit down and pretend
that you are a person who knows absolutely nothing about the
subject.  Write down FIFTEEN QUESTIONS that such a person might
ask you.  Then write out, in your own words, the answers to the
fifteen questions.  Do not try to be literary!  When you are
finished, lay it aside for a day or two.

Then re-read it with a red pencil, crossing out all unnecessary
words and sentences, inserting a new point here and there.
REWRITE the whole thing, and you will be amazed to discover that
your folio is ready to be published!

HOW DO YOU GET IT PRINTED?

Type it as neatly as possible on 8 1/2 x 11 WHITE typing paper.
Single space it, leaving two lines between each paragraph.  Take
it to a local PHOTO-OFFSET printer who will make a few hundred
copies for you, very reasonably, usually within 24 hours.  If
you have more than four pages, have it printed on both sides of
the paper.  It will lower your printing costs slightly, and it
will save you extra postage in the future.  To give your folio a
professional touch, have it printed on canary yellow, pink, or
light green paper.

HOW DO YOU SELL IT?

There are four ways:

1.  DIRECT FROM ADS IN MAGAZINES AND TABLOID PAPERS.  If
economically possible, sell it for $1.00 or $2.00 per copy.
(Occasionally $3.00.)  Write a brief, eyecatching classified ad
asking those interested to send their orders directly to you.
If your ad is novel, believable, and of genuine interest, you
will be surprised at how many people will do this.  If your
folio is about stamp collecting, advertise it in the stamp
collecting papers.  If it is about Astrology, advertise it in
the Astrology magazines - to do otherwise is fatal.  Be sure to
run your ad in at least three issues.  If you have never sold
folios by mail, I sincerely suggest you use this method.

2.  ADVERTISE FOR INQUIRIES.  If your folio is quite elaborate
and must be sold for $3.00 or more, use this method.  Write a
brief, tempting ad describing your folio, and offer free
details.  Then mail literature describing the folio to those who
answer the ads.  Don't expect more than one inquiry in ten to
buy it from you.

Here are ads placed by folio writers in a recent issue of the
National Enquirer, who use this method:

"Never Won anything?  Anyone can win sweepstakes contests!  Free
details."       "Overweight?  I lost 53 pounds.  Easily.
(Permanently!) New Method.  Information Free.

"Troubles?  God can help!  Free information."   "Make money
clipping newspapers at home spare time.  Details Free."

3.  DIRECT MAIL.  If you have written a folio showing how to get
inventions patented, you could purchase a list of amateur
inventors, and mail your sales literature to each individual on
the list.  If you are lucky, you'll sell your folio to about one
person in every twenty-five.  Direct mail can be very effective
for experienced mail order operators, but it is usually far too
costly for the beginner.  It can easily cost you several hundred
dollars for each one thousand letters you mail.

4.  SELLING THROUGH AGENTS.   If you are willing to sell your
folio in small wholesale quantities, or if you are willing to
drop-ship folios for mail dealers, then you might find this the
most effective way to market your folios.  Below are some ads
placed by folio writers in a recent issue of Specialty Salesman.

"Sell Health Books Mailorder!  Write"

"Sell Books by Mail!  400% Profit!"

"Sell Books by Mail.  Complete dealer set-up.  25 cents"

"Free Newsletter!  Sell Books by mail!  We wholesale, dropship."

Some of the above ads have been running ten and twenty years,
indicating that this could be a very successful way to market
your folios.

500 NEW FOLIO IDEAS!

Over the past two or three years, I have been jotting down ideas
for folios that could be developed and sold by mail.  I'm now
printing the whole list for your use.  I honestly feel that any
idea on this list could be marketed by mail, if a person had the
ambition and ingenuity to develop it.

You are free to use any idea on this list.  I have NOT checked
to see if any of the titles have been copyrighted.  If they
have, create a new one.  Also, you are free to change the titles
around to suit your own situation.  For example, "Summer Jobs in
Nevada" could become, "Summer Jobs in New York City".  I'm sure
you get the point.

Good luck to you!

MARRIAGE

Plan your Wedding Now!

Plan your Honeymoon

What to Wear at your Wedding

Cooking Tips for Newlyweds

Do you need a Marriage Counsellor?

Living on a Budget

How to Survive Divorce

How to Get a Divorce

Teach your Husband to Cook!

Organize your Housework

Alimony Laws Made Simple

How to be a successful Father

How to Win a Fight with your Husband

Marry a Man with Money

Poor Men make Better Husbands

FAMILY AND CHILDREN

So, You're Expecting a Baby!

Does your Child take Drugs?

Don't Spank your Child!

Select the Right Names for your Baby!

Inspire your Child to Learn

Can your Boy Defend Himself?

Listen to Your Child

How to Raise an only Child

Teach your Child to Read

Choosing a Babysitter

Loving an Adopted Child

Keep your Child Busy!

Tell your Child about Sex

How to Select a Baby Doctor

Understanding your Teenager

Which Summer Camp for your Child?

Teach your Son a Trade

Facts about Childbirth for Husbands

FAMILY PROBLEMS

A Parents Guide to Dangerous Drugs

Save Money on your Clothing Bill

Mother's Guide to Thrift Shop Buying

Where & How to Apply for a Loan

Better Health through Better Eating

How to Trace your Family Tree

Families without Fathers

Does your Child Eat Right?

What Unwed Mothers Should Know

SALESMANSHIP

Ten Ways to Close a Sale

Sell it at the Flea Market!

Is selling for You?

Ten Successful Selling Tips

How to Improve your Sales Technique

Why People Buy

How to Sell Sporting Goods

Positive Thinking makes the Difference

Directory of Direct Selling Firms

How to Get Leads by Telephone

How to Recruit Salesmen

ENTERTAINING AT HOME

How to Throw a Cocktail Party

24 Ideas for your next Birthday Party

Make your next Shower a Real Success!

How to be a Gracious Hostess

The Office Party Guide

Turn an Ordinary Meal into a FEAST!

How to Make Better Cocktails

BEAUTY

Glamour Tips for Teenagers

Beauty Tips for the Expectant Mother

Every Woman Can be Beautiful

Apply Make-up like a Professional

Your Personality makes the Difference

What Color is Best for YOU?

How to Achieve the Natural Look

Choosing the Right Hair Style for You

ASTROLOGY

 How to Chart your Horoscope

Selecting a Career through Astrology

Astrology and your Marriage Mate

Apply Astrology to your Daily Life

Astrology Made Simple

Your Future is in the Stars!

How to Read the Zodiac

GARDENING

Build your own Greenhouse

Grow what you Eat!

How to Grow Gorgeous Roses

Beginners Guide to Landscaping

How to Grow Food in an Apartment

ANTIQUES

Introduction to Antique Collecting

Facts about Antique Auctions

How to Sell Antiques

Let's Go to an Antique Show

How to Become an Antique Dealer

Directory of Antique Publications

How to Detect Fake Antiques

How to  Restore Antiques

WRITING

Writing Mystery Stories

How to Write Poetry

Writing Gags for Television

How to Write for Newspapers

Start a Writers Club

Opportunities in Ghost Writing

Can you Write Science Fiction?

How to Write for Trade Papers

Writing for Children

Today's Market for Short Stories

How to Write for Religious Magazines

How to Plot a Novel

Write Pornography!  It Sells!

Selecting a Literary Agent

How to Write Book Review

How to Review Plays and Movies

Become a Music Critic

What they NEVER Tell you in Writing School!

HOME DECORATING

Decorating Tips for Your Bedroom

Thirteen Ways to Beautify your Kitchen

How to Decorate your Windows

Decorate Like a Professional!

Patios Can be Beautiful

Beginner's Guide to Drapery Making

Wallpaper makes the Difference

Glamour in your Bathroom

Selecting Plants for your Home

PHOTOGRAPHY

Repair your own Camera

Photo Retouching for Beginners

Become a Professional Photographer

How to make Better Home Movies

Selecting the Right Camera for You

Build your own Dark Room

Become a Wedding Photographer

Where to Sell your Photography

CHURCH

Sermon Outlines for Busy Pastors

Fund Raising Ideas for your Church

Twelve Ways to Increase your Church Attendance

Projects for Vacation Bible School

How to use Chalk Talks Effectively

How to Prepare a Sermon

Put some ZIP into your Church Bulletin

Every Parishioner - an Evangelist!

Choir Practice Can be Fun

Keep the Older Members Happy

Teaching Tips for Sunday School Teachers

Have you been Called to the Priesthood?

Religious Vocations for Women

Plan a Prayer Breakfast

AUTOMOBILES

How to Tune you own Car

Save Money on Auto Parts

Revitalize your Transmission

How to Test a Car Before you Buy!

Repair the Brakes Yourself

PETS

How to Raise your Kitten

Tricks your Dog can Learn

Build your own Aquarium

Fashion Tips for your Poodle

How to Operate a Dog Kennel

How to Start a Pet Shop

Dog Grooming Opportunities

How to Win at the next Dog Show

Do Snakes make good Pets?

The Successful Way to Raise Rabbits

TRAVEL

Overcome your Fear of Flight

How to Obtain a Passport

Vacation Planning Tips

Travel Tips for Honeymooners

Let's Go Camping

Ghost Towns you should See

How to Survive in the Wilderness

Vacationing in the Desert

Plan a Hiking trip

GAMBLING

How to Become a Blackjack Dealer

Job Opportunities in Las Vegas

Gambling Secrets Revealed

Win at the Race Track!

How to Play Keno

Baccarat for Beginners

Roulette Self Taught

Why Gambling should be Legalized

Handbook for Poker Players

How to Win at 21

Better Bingo!

Improve your Pinochle Game

How to Cure a Compulsive Gambler

ART

How to Paint Landscapes

Make your own Picture Frames

Oil Painting for Beginners

Working with Acrylics

Introduction to Water Colors

How to Exhibit your Paintings

How to Buy Art Supplies

How to Model for Art Classes

How to Sketch Portraits

Working with Chalks

STAMP COLLECTING

Start a Stamp Collection

Stamp Mixtures can be Fun

Organize a Stamp Collectors Club

How to Find a Stamp Collectors Club

Stamps by Country or Topic - Which

How to sell your Stamp Collection

Let's Visit a Stamp Auction!

How to Sell Stamp Packets by Mail

Start an Approval Business for Stamp Collectors!

Recognizing Rare Stamps

Investing in Stamps

HANDCRAFTS

Working with Leather

Pottery Making for Beginners

Make your own Jewelry

How to make Beautiful Dolls

Introduction to Metal Enameling

How to make Puppets

Making a Potter's Wheel

Craft Projects for pre-school children

Profits in Indian Jewelry

How to make Stained Glass Windows

Like Working with Beads?

Make your own Christmas Cards

Directory of Wholesale Handcraft Supplies

How to Build Doll Houses

Christmas Decorations You can Make

Knitting &  Crocheting Ideas for the Beginner

Selling Handmade Crafts at Art Shows

Candlemaking for Beginners

Weave your own Rugs

The Art of Shellcraft

Selling Handcrafts on Consignment

Needlepoint for Beginners

Decorating Glass

The Art of Papier-mache

An Introduction to Ceramics

Conducting Handcraft Classes

Create your own Ear Rings

54 New Quilt Patterns

Making Gifts from Throw-aways

The Basics of Macrame

Decoupage:  An Introduction

What you can make from Macrame

Christmas Crafts for Children

Bread Dough Art for Beginners

NEW CAREERS

How to Ask for a Raise

Write your own Resume

Earn Money Tutoring

Dance your Way to Stardom

Your Future in Physics

Careers in Astronomy

How to Dress for Job Interviews

Become a Professional Astrologer

Raising Funds for Profit

Gun Repairing as a Career

Opportunities Unlimited for Commercial Artists!

Have Fun!  Be a Ski Instructor!

Job Opportunities in Law Enforcement

Can YOU Manage Apartments?

Become a Book Finder

Writing for Small Town Newspapers

Opportunities in Advertising

Become a Professional Librarian

Are you a BORN Mechanic?

Is there a Place in Television for You?

Show Business Opportunity Guide

Your Place in the Electronics Industry

Environmental Careers

Your Aptitude and your Job

A Career in Nursing for You!

How to Break into Public Relations

Air Freight - Transportation of the Future

Be a Management Consultant

Your Future as a Travel Agent

Opportunities for Part-Time Workers

Wanted!  Aviation Mechanics

How to Succeed in a Job Interview

Summer Jobs in Nevada

Job Opportunities for Women in Alaska

Can you Counsel Alcoholics?

Guide to Professional Acting Schools

How to Become a Recording Artist

Finding Satisfaction in your Job

Should you be a Social worker?

How to be a Strip Tease Dancer

MONEY MAKING IDEAS

How to Run a Garage Sale

Making Money with old Comic Books

Start a Shopping service

How to Start a Trade Paper

There's Money in Turquoise

Cash in on Today's Hobby Market!

Investing in Real Estate

Twenty Ways to Get Rich Quick!

How to be your own Boss

Turn your ideas into DOLLARS!

Your Town Needs a Typing Service!

Open an Art Gallery

How to Start a Delivery Service

Collecting Bills can be Profitable

How to Start a Mobile Home Park

Start a Bookkeeping Service

Penpals are Big Business!

Cash in on the Nostalgia Craze

Form your own Rock Group!

Start a Resume Bureau

Teach Children How to Dance

Profits in Auctions

Business Enterprises for College Students

HOBBIES

Collect Coins for Fun and Profit

Chess:  Self Taught

Boat Building for Beginners

Let's Go to a Boat Show!

Bicycle your Way to Better Health

How to Repair your Bicycle

Let's Motor Bike!

How to Join a Motorcycle Club

How to Repair your Motorcycle

How to Enter a Chess Tournament

Start your own Chess Club!

How to Collect Military Medals

200 Things you can Collect

Collecting Paper Weights

Gun Collecting as a Hobby

Collecting Nazi relics

Guide to Antique Car Collecting

How to Collect Gems and Minerals

Become a Silent Film Buff

Model Railroading:  An Introduction

How to Collect Old Postcards

How to Build Model Airplanes

Collecting Postmarks

Go Fly a Kite!

How to Perform Magic Tricks

Gardening - America's Number One Hobby

Guide to Seashell Collecting

Tips for Radio Hams

Collect Bottles for Fun and Profit

How to Collect Autographs

Collecting Old Automobile Manuals

Do you Collect old Magazines?

Book Collecting for Beginners

PERSONAL PROBLEMS

Protect Yourself from Muggers

Protect your Home from Burglary

How to Handle Obscene Phone Calls

How to Say "No" to a Salesman

Defend Yourself from Rape

How to File for Bankruptcy

How to Sublet Your Apartment

How to Sell Your Home

Investing in Jewelry

What YOU Should Know about Banking

How to Buy Stocks and Bonds

Get Creditors Off Your Back

What Credit Bureaus Know about You

How to Balance Your Checkbook

How to Save on Your Hospital Bills

SPORTS

How to Enter Professional Football

Improve Your Swimming Strokes

Can You Handle Racing Cars?

How to Play Better Baseball

Wrestling Holds:  An Introduction

Guide to Ski Resorts

Amateur Boxing Guide

Know Your Hunting Rifle

Let's Go Trout Fishing

Tennis for Beginners

Keep in Shape!  Bowl!

Treasure Hunting Can Be Fun

Let's Go Deer Hunting!

The Thrill of Salt Water Fishing

Jog Your Way to Health

How to Lift Weights

Build Your Own Gym!

Ice Hockey:  An Introduction

Play Basketball!

Are You Interested in Wild Game Hunting?

Body Building Tips

What to Wear in the Jungle!

OCCULTISM

Witchcraft Secrets Revealed

True Mystical Experiences

Your Handwriting Reveals the Real You!

ESP for Beginners

Yoga for Beginners

You Can Change Your Destiny

An Introduction to Hypnotism

Relax!  Learn to Meditate

MISCELLANEOUS

The Hitchhikers Manual

You Can Be a TV Contestant!

Facts Every Inventor Should Know

How to Enjoy the Opera

Living in a Mobile Home

How to Read Blueprints

How They Make TV Commercials

Are Your Employees Stealing from You?

How to Prepare a Publicity Release

Understanding the Stock Market

Effective Lecturing for Beginners

All about Mutual Funds

How to Pass a Lie Detector Test

Get Free Publicity for your Business

How to Pan for Gold

How to Select the Perfect Gift

How to Remove Tattoos

How to Learn Tattooing

Sewing Tips (From a Professional!)

Make Your Own Cheese

Directory of UFO Groups

Build Your Own Canoe

How to be a Ventriloquist

The Florida Flea Market Guide

101 Ways to Decorate a Cake

How to Identify Counterfeit Money

Guide to Professional Cooking Schools

Facts about Franchises

Twenty Ways to Get your Name in the Paper!

How to Meet Celebrities

Guide to Radio Talk Shows

How to Adjust to a New Neighborhood

Recipes for Homemade Jelly

How to Conduct a Political Campaign

How to Hold a Fashion Show!

How to Move - Easily, Economically

Handbook for Street Musicians

How to Mold Public Opinion

How to Spot a Potential Suicide

How to Train a Hunting Dog

HEALTH

Ten Old-Fashioned Cold Remedies

Facts about Arthritis

My Life with Polio

Ten Ways to Cure Insomnia

Recipes for Diet Candy

Fasting is Good for You

Are You Facing a Nervous Breakdown?

How to Care for your Skin