---
title: 3711
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

15  MAIL ORDER REPORTS

These Reports are sold as information only. The contents of these
reports were correct at time of publication. Purchase of these
reports includes full reproduction rights and the right to resell
this information in any manner desired. If You come across any
information that is out-dated please let me know. I will be happy
to send you the next edition free when published.

STOP PAYING REAL ESTATE TAXES FOR FOREVER. No more property tax,
no school, sewer or other local civic taxes--avoid ALL these
taxes by simply LIVING ON THE WATER in your own boat. The Chinese
have been living aboard their boats for many generations so this
is nothing new! You can buy a 40 foot houseboat with two 220 HP
engines for a little as $11,000 on terms. Get more information by
sending a SASE to: H.C WILSON, BOX 177, RIVERSIDE, NJ.08075.

GET AN EXCLUSIVE OFFICE WITH NO RENT. The way you do this is
become a "Rental Manager." Many office complexes have vacant
spaces because there is no on-the-premises manager to show the
space and answer questions. Find out which complexes are having
vacancy problems and locate the owner. he will normally be glad
to offer you an office if you answer calls, and show off the
spaces to prospective clients.

GET $20,000 WORTH OF FREE FURNITURE. You can obtain free
furniture and a lot of other merchandise by starting up a
"freebie Newspaper." What you do is contact store owners and
merchants who normally advertise in regular local papers and
offer to run their ads in exchange for free furniture, or other
merchandise. True, you will be running their ad free but chances
are you wouldn't have to a paid ad for that space either. If you
promote this right, you could grow into a large operation and go
into PAID circulation before you know it. In the meantime, and
for as long as you like, you can continue to receive FREE
merchandise in exchange for advertising.

HOW TO BORROW MONEY INTEREST-FREE. There are a number of ways to
borrow money interest-free if you take the time to operate the
methods. However, one of the simplest ways is to borrow it from a
bank which offers "overdraft protection." You've seen these
offers by banks which extend to you a loan for the amount you
overdraw your checking account. By setting up two or more (and
credit limits can go up to $5,000 each) you can write yourself a
"loan" from one bank cover the loan with a deposit from another
bank where you have overdraft checking, and then repeat the
process every day or two covering each withdraw with another
deposit, you will not be charged interest since it would take two
or three days for the records to catch up--by the time, you've
made another deposit which covered the original loan. Operated
this way, you can keep the money interest-free for quite some
time.


OWN YOUR OWN MILLION DOLLAR CORPORATION IN 4 WEEKS. Here again,
it is helpful to form your corporation in Delaware. In this state
the law allows you to assign any "par-value" to stock as you
like--even though there are no assets to back your valuation.
Thus, it is possible to assign a par value of $10,00 each to 100
shares of stock and list it in your book as "assets." It's
strictly a paper poly but can be used in a number of situations
to enhance your image among other prospective business partners.
By appearing wealthy, you can swing many deals and make friends
with people in higher positions of power. Try it.

GET NEW BUSINESS WHERE YOU VIRTUALLY CAN'T LOSE. The industry
that produces more millionaires than any other is in SALES. There
is one business where you can't virtually can't lose and it's
MAILORDER. A firm called Rexon Inc.,676 Kingsley Ave.,Orange
Park, FL.32073 has recently begun offering distributorships and
opportunities for its fine line of products. They furnish a
beginning supply of material to get you started and, at this
writing, guarantee your success by offering TEN TIMES your money
back on the beginner's sales kit. Although there is a nominal
charge for the kit, they give enough free products to pay back
that cost almost overnight. Thus, you can still get in on a
profitable business for almost FREE.

HOW TO GET FREE TRAVEL. Still again, its is possible to appoint
yourself as President of your non-profit organization and have
the organization supply you with "free" vehicle with all
expenses. If our organization is a church related corporation,
you can tour Europe for free--to visit Church cathedrals as an
example. A Church can raise money by "selling" charters, degrees,
and other cheap paper for hundreds of dollars. Many non-profit
organizations sell "degrees" and diplomas for upwards of $1500
each--and it's all legal.

HOW TO MAKE MONEY WITH YOUR OWN AD SHEET. Usually ad sheets are
started by the publisher cutting ads from other magazines and
running his paste-ups with these "freebies". The beginner then
mails his ad sheet to those dealers and asks them to re-run their
ads with him a "X" number of dollars per column inch. This is a
risky beginning because many dealers will not buy additional ad
space for one reason or another. DOMAR ENTERPRISES, Box 581,
Laurel, MD.20810 has a method for starting ad sheets that is
almost 100% risk free. They will send you a full page of
all-profit ads (ones that pay 100% commission) and you run these
ads over your name in your first edition of your ad sheet. As
paid ads come in, you simply replace the 100% ads with the paid
ads. Until you get paid ads, you continue making money whether
you get paid advertisers or not. Moreover, THIS SAME COMPANY will
actually design your master ad  FREE if you will run their 3 x 6
ad in your first edition. Thus, you can make money off their ads,
and get a professionally designed ad sheet free.

HOW TO RAISE $200,00 IN 24 HOURS. Many people have had
opportunities presented to them where a quick cash was necessary.
Most people are unable to take advantage of the great
opportunities because they lack the cash. A simple procedure is
available whereby you can generate cash within 24 hours. The
process is easy and quick and requires that your first make the
preparation and lay the groundwork for the plan. You can call
this plan the banking round robin. Go to ten banks and tell the
loan officer at each bank you want to borrow $1000 for 30 days.
Upon paying off your loans, wait 30 days and go back to each bank
from which you borrowed the original $1000. This time request a
larger amount depending on what you think the bank will loan, say
$5000. If each bank approves a $5000 loan you will be able to
raise $50,000 the second time. Continue this step-by-step
process. Each time go to the bank, ask for larger amount and
longer pay back period. What you are doing, of course, is
establishing a millionaires credit rating by the process of
reputation. That is, you always pay back the money when
it is due, and by being prompt combined with the number of loans
you've made and PAID, you will have established a very powerful
credit rating and relationship with the institutions. In about
one year after using this process, you should be able to borrow
$20,000  from each bank on your signature. Using ten banks in
this plan, you will be able to borrow up to $200,000 on your
signature in as little as 24 hours.

WIPE OUT DEBTS WITHOUT BANKRUPTCY. In 1988 a federal law was
passed known as the Wage Earner Plan. It is administered by the
same branch of our courts that handles bankruptcy. You must be a
wage earner to use this law--that is the primary requirement. The
Wage Earner plan does not itself "wipe out" debts, but a
little-known proviso of your filling requires your creditors to
appear. Statistics indicate that 40% fail to appear in which
case, those debts are indeed "wiped out". In some cases 100% of
the creditors fail to appear which enables you to wipe out ALL
your debts without bankruptcy. If some  of the creditors do
appear, then the court allows you to spread your payments out
over a three year period in smaller amounts you can afford to
pay. Once you file, you stop bill collectors, lawsuits,
judgements, assignments, seized bank accounts, and other actions
against you. An to top it all off, your credit rating is, in many
cases, improved because you made a honest effort to work with the
lending firms. Additionally, if the seller used deceptive trade
practices to induce your purchase, your debt may be wiped out
under the provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code. Under the
Homestead Act, your residence can be exempted from levy to extent
determined by local law. Check at your local courthouse.

ESTABLISH AAA CREDIT IN 30 DAYS. To work this plan you need at
least $400 to begin. You should borrow this from your friends if
necessary. Then go to the bank of your choice and deposit the
$400 into a regular passbook savings account. It will take a few
days for the account to be posted and return to the bank to ask
for a $400 loan- you offer the passbook as collateral. Since the
bank is already holding your $400, there is no way it can lose by
lending you another 400 and they won't even make a credit check.
Then with your borrowed $400, you go to another bank, open up an
savings account, return a few days later, borrow $400 from that
bank using your passbook account as collateral. Then repeat the
process at a third bank with your borrowed $400 from the bank
using your passbook account as collateral. Wait a few days and go
to a fourth bank where you open this time a CHECKING account.
Wait a few days and make a payment on each of the other three
loans. A week later, make payments again on the three loans, and
continue paying each week until you have almost paid off the
balance. A credit invitation at this point will show you with
three active bank loans (which are considered hard to get), a
checking account, and paying history for the three bank
loans--with you having paid up in advance. Thus, you have a AAA
credit in a little as 30 days. From here you go on to apply for
credit cards, and other items on credit.

GET ANY CREDIT CARD YOU WANT. You should have no problem getting
any credit card you want if you follow the above procedure first.
But, there are a few rules to follow to insure you have no
difficulties in obtaining your cards: 1) Apply for department
store cards first. Purchase something and pay the balance when
due; 2) apply for a gasoline credit cards listing your department
store cards as references; 3) Apply for bank cards--Master Charge
and Visa; 4) Apply for Travel and Entertainment cards--American
Express, Diners Club, etc.

HOW TO BUY HOMES AND LAND FOR A FEW DOLLARS. Yes, you can buy
homes, apartments and land for next to nothing by using the
procedure of bidding at "tax delinquency and lien sales." These
are made to recover unpaid taxes on property which is auctioned
off 3 to 4 times each year. Check your local tax assessor for
dates. In the past people have picked up $50,000 homes for as
little as $2,000 and apartments and land for similar discounts.

HOW TO STOP PAYING PROPERTY TAXES ON YOUR HOME. The way to do
this is to sign over the title of your home to your non-profit
organization. You can form your own church or organization and
apply for tax-exempt status at your county courthouse. Or, you
can sign over the title of your home to your local church or
other non-profit organization if you do not will it to go to your
heirs. Under this arrangement, you retain lifetime habitation
rights although the property belongs to the local non-profit
organization.

HOW TO GET YOUR 3X6 CIRCULARS TYPESET FREE. The plan is so simple
you'll wonder why you never thought of it yourself. But once you
give it a try, you will thank us a thousand times for revealing
it to you. There are literally hundreds of mail order
publications that will print your add by the "letterpress"
method. This means they actually set it up in type. This is the
only method that an ad or circular can be done properly and with
good taste (commercial art excepted, of course). First, pick out
a good publication and determine the words per inch policy. If
your offer has nay merit at all, your ad in either MAIL SALE
ADVERTISER OR MAIL ORDER DISCOUNTER will sell for many times over
the price of the ad. This means your ad is run free. And, after
your ad is published in the magazine, you merely clip it out,
mail it to your printer, and presto--you have your ad or 3 x 6
circular typeset FREE-- plus you have made a good profit.