---
title: 3723
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

THE $500.00 A MONTH PLAN

One way to make extra money or start a business of your own is by
placing advertising which will pay a good profit. Selling printed
information by mail can be financially rewarding. Classified
advertising is the cheapest way to get into Mail Order and it is
often possible to raise a fortune from these small ads. Just
check any large publication such as Popular Mechanics, for their
classified advertising section and you can see yourself the many
ads.

These small ads, running month after month would not be there if
they were not profitable and making money. according  to some of
the promotional material being sent around the country, you could
make up to $500.00 or possibly more by running the following
classified ads over your name and address. They ask you to pick
up a top national publication and test either one or both under
"Money-Making Opportunities" headings and watch the dollars come
in. I did not run any of these ads myself but was told they
really are both profitable. Here are the programs and the
advertisements:

"How would you like to receive $25 daily and keep all the money?
For complete set-up rush $1 to (Your name and address)"

" $500 monthly, work at home, receive money daily. For complete
set-up send $1 to (Your name and address here)"

You are supposed to fill orders you receive with a copy of this
sheet you are now reading. Make photocopies or get a supply
printed to send as needed.

There are other variations of this plan, but all serve the same
purpose: to sell printed information to people who are interested
in making some extra money. (they say it is truly possible to
make money with this plan).

If you study the many classified ads in the big national
publications, you may get a better idea of what the leading
companies in Mail Order are doing. You will get a better idea of
how classified advertising works. if you have limited capital, it
would be wise to run your ads in smaller publications such as
small newspapers, small Mail Order Publications and adsheets.

If you have sufficient capital, some good pulling national
magazines or Tabloids are:

*Popular Mechanics
*Money Making Opportunities
*Salesman's Opportunities
*Specialty Salesman
*Mechanics Illustrated
*National Enquirer
And many others to numerous to mention.


many such magazines tabloids and other good publications are
available at your local news stand, library or through Mail
Order. Many of them require a copy of the material you are
selling with your ad and reserve the right not to print certain
ads they feel may be injurious to the public or the image of
their publication

Yes! You can start your own advertising and mailing business at
home and keep finances ahead of inflation but be sure you are
involved in the kind of program that gives you a reasonable
chance to be a winner!