---
title: 3756
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

HOW TO MAKE MONEY WITH YOUR ANSWERING MACHINE

Your Answering Machine can be used to make MORE MONEY than you've
ever made in your whole life! People with absolutely no business
or marketing skills have been successful with Answering Machine
Marketing methods. Recently, a young couple in Gossell, Kansas,
went from three hundred to three million dollars, marketing
money-making information in the form of books, manuals, and
reports using a simple telephone answering machine.

This can only prove that the American Dream is still alive and
well. this couple has also proved that if you have:

(1) A Great Idea; (2) Believe in your ability to make it happen;
(3) Non-Stop motivation to take action now!, and (4) If you
persist...You Can Have It All!

UNLIMITED MONEY MAKING POTENTIAL

The money-making potential of a simple telephone answering
machine is almost unlimited. So how do I use my answering
machine, and what do I sell? Good question! The possibilities are
endless! Many people are making a lot of money selling "How-To"
information in the form of books, reports, manuals, directories.
Topics include: Home Worker Guides, A Government Job Guide,
Making Money As A Free-Lance Writer, Making Money With Your
Pick-Up Truck, Making Money At U.S. Government Auctions, and
more. However, the telephone answering machine ad approach can be
adapted to many, many different products and services: Insurance
or real Estate selling, home mortgage reductions, home
improvements, Seminars of all kinds, Dating Services, and any
kind of restaurant, social events, and 1001 other types of
services.

HOW IT WORKS

A small display ad, or an inexpensive classified ad is placed in
daily or weekly newspapers inviting the reader to call a recorded
message for more free information on your product, service or
event. Using a well-written, benefit-rich script, you, or a
professional speaker, record a 2 or 3 minute message that entices
the caller to do one of the following:

(1) Leave his/her name and address and request that the order be
shipped C.O.D.

(2) Leave his/her name and address to request more "free
information" be sent.

A third method that some have tired concerns credit card
ordering. however, most operators have found that this does not
work very well. people do not like to leave their charge card
number at the end of a recorded message. A fourth method that has
had some success, asks the caller to order direct from the phone
message, by sending a check or money order. Which of the two
primary options works best? There are several advocates of each
method.

Obviously, if you are offering a high-ticket item, or a
specialized service (real estate, insurance, multi-level
marketing, etc...) you would want simply to capture the callers
address and/or phone number for the follow-up.

If you're selling a relatively low-priced item (less than $50),
such as a book, gift item, etc., you can either use the C.O.D or
inquiry method.

To ship C.O.D., or not, is a marketing option that confronts
every marketer who has a reasonably priced item, and who wants to
use a recorded message as a selling tool.

The major advantage of C.O.D. shipping is that the order
instructions are captured on your answering machine, and can be
processed and shipped immediately.

The major disadvantage to the C.O.D. method is that it is likely
that 40% to 55% of all orders shipped will come back to you
because the UPS driver or U.S. Postal Route Carrier (C.O.D.
orders can be shipped either by United Parcel Service or by U.S.
Mail) could not make delivery and get paid. that's not good!

Proponents of C.O.D. shipping claim, even with the huge amount of
undeliverable, that this method is still their favorite. There
are three entrepreneurs, one in Utah, one in California, another
in Arizona, who each are making millions of dollars per year
selling books and reports, via the C.O.D method. it's nice to
keep it simple. you run your ads, you use a hard sell recorded
telephone script. the callers leave their address, and you ship.

Marketers who hate C.O.D. shipping usually can't emotionally
handle all those undeliverable, unpaid for shipments. C.O.D.
shipping does work for some. if you can "psychologically" handle
the big return factor, it may make you the kind of money you have
always dreamed of making.

Her's an important marketing tip: If you do get involved in C.O.D
shipping, send a postcard to the responder one day before you
ship the order. Say something like this:

Thank you for your order for our amazing (fill in the book's
title or the name of the product here), your order is being
processed and will be shipped immediately. Please be sure to have
$_______ (total amount) available to pay the UPS driver when he
calls.

                        SPECIAL FREE BONUS

In addition to receiving the (fill in product name), we are also
including a very special free bonus with your order. We know
you'll love it!

Thanks again for ordering. We appreciate having you as a
customer.

Signed___________________________________________________________
                   Name and Address Of Your Company 

This technique works just great! One marketer was able to reduce
returns by over 15%, by using this little ploy that added up to
tens of thousands of dollars in one year!

What should your free bonus be? Put on your thinking cap! you can
come up with some inexpensive "widget" or low-cost report, that
relates to what you're selling. If you're going to use the C.O.D.
method---You must do this!

Another option to the C.O.D. method is the two-step inquiry
method. Sure, it's much slower. First you capture the name and
address of the voice responder. Next you rush him or her (it's
wise to mail within 48 hours--or less!) your sales literature. no
huge ego-deflating returns, plus your printed sales literature
can make a much stronger, and longer presentation than a 2 or 3
minute electronic script.

WHY IT WORKS

Why does a simple answering machine work so well. We have
discovered that many people who are usually not "mail responsive"
will pick up a telephone and call a recorded message. this is
particularly true of newspaper readers.

So what must you do to get started in this exciting and highly
profitable business! Well, let me give you the necessary steps
that you must take to put this information into action.

(1) Create/or locate a product or service that is highly in
demand by a large group of people.

(2) Write a classified ad and sales message (almost like a
commercial) to sell the product or service. record the sales
message onto a simple answering machine.

(3) Place your classified ad in a newspaper that offers the
cheapest rates (usually a very small paper or Pennysaver, etc)
and put the phone number that is being used by the answering
machine that has your recorded script on it in the advertisement.

(4) Your customer will see your ad, call your number, listen to
your sales message and order.
           
          A SIMPLE CONCEPT THAT CAN MAKE YOU MILLIONS!