---
title: 60741
pubDate: 2023-01-11
---

24 PRINCIPLES OF DIRECT MARKETING

1. There are four important elements in a "Direct Mail Package" 
and close attention must be paid to each: (Before anything, of 
course, comes the essential "idea" since the conceptual strategy 
is still key.)

a) the graphics (carrier) which must be opened by reader - i.e, 
"what does it look like?"
b) the offer: the way the proposition is phrased - i.e "what's 
the deal?"
c) the copy: the compelling description that gets the reader to 
buy or act - i.e. "how is it said?"
d) the list: the targeted audience most likely willing to buy or 
act - i.e. "who is it sent to?"

2. Perhaps the most important element is the list since an 
excellent offer, with a striking carrier and compelling copy - if
mailed to wrong list - can be a disaster. Others belive copy is 
most important, but don't let ranking bother you since each 
element is important. Take all reasonable steps to get, use and 
keep the most accurate and up=to-=date lists possible to increase
your margin of success. Set up a system to add names and keep'em 
current.

3. Heed "Daly's Law" - "Everything takes longer and costs more!' 
So. it's wise to start project in ample time to make all elements
come together in easy manner. Use "reverse timetable" to plot 
what needs to be done and when. For instance, you probably need 
to order lists first. Then, don't forget the envelopes, printed 
stock, other enclosures , etc. Allow time for delivery and return
action plus follow-up mailings.

4. Direct Mail is a demanding taskmaster, so if it fails it's 
probably you who missed somewhere, not the medium.. If possible, 
"test" some or all portions of your program so you can alter 
methods if needed.

5. Writing compelling  Direct Mail copy only seems simple so 
don't be deceived. Heed basic principles of writing to single 
person in simple, straightforward manner - yet with style. For 
success, remember the 3 "S's" of successful copy are: (1) 
Simplicity, (2) Sincerity, (3) Serenity. Long copy is not 
necessarily bad, in fact it can outpull short copy. Focus on main
message you intend to convey. Never forget you want action to 
occur...NOW. Be sure copy answers the always-asked questions: 
"What's in it for me?" Always keep reader's perceived needs in 
mind. Do the necessary research to determine them.

6. Closely analyze your potential markets and your offer so you 
can hone lists and copy to target your approach. Though you mail 
by the thousands, remember Direct Mail is more akin to a rifle 
than a shotgun. Write your copy to be read by one person at a 
time.
7. Remember Direct Mail is a substitute sales representative. 
Where an in-person sales representative can immediately answer 
prospects' questions and overcome objections when raised, Direct 
mail copy must anticipate all aspects and insure logical points 
are covered.

8. Incorporate an action device - coupon, order form, reply card 
or envelope, phone number - to make it easy for recipient to take
desired action.. Repeatedly tell recipient what action you want 
and make it simple to do. Put nothing in the way of getting an 
order or response. Use all action devices cited.

9. A letter almost always works better in a Direct Mail package 
than a package - even a catalog - without a letter. Don't worry 
if the letter repeats what's in the catalog, brochure or order 
form. It's there for a different purpose. The sales letter is a 
one-to-one communications to explain and sell, to get the 
recipient to act. The postscript is often the most-read part of 
the letter.

10. If all elements of package are good, it is imperative repeat 
mailings be made. It's difficult to wear out a good list and,, 
unless mailings are overdone, you can't wear out your welcome. 
Let statistical probabilities and the laws of economics work in 
your favor rather than allow difference about making frequent 
mailings deter you. A common error is not to mail often enough or
to a wider list.

11. Keep detailed records of everything you do.. Follow a 
"systems approach" so you know what happened, when and why. That 
way you can repeat successes and avoid failures. Sometimes the 
difference of a tenth of a percent or less is all it takes to 
tune a marginal performer into a winner.

12. Study all elements of your package so you can know what's 
working. Is it the price? The geography? The timing? The phrasing
of the offer? The list? The copy? The product? Which of those 
myriad elements, in combination or without one element, makes the
critical difference in the return? Analyze your records closely 
and continually until you know why you're winning and can repeat 
success.

13. Keep current with changing postal rules, rates, regulations 
and procedures. Regularly monitor your procedures to insure 
you're in full compliance. To illustrate expensive errors, a 
frantic client called after the Postal Inspector visited. We can 
help with postal problems.. Had he checked with us before the 
visit, the $5000 per word differential postal cost and worry most
likely could have been avoided. We offer professional 
authoritative postal expertise but seldom can avert unchecked 
mistakes. Check in advance. (We can supply you with a checklist 
of valuable postal publications upon receipt of addressed, double
stamped #10 envelope.)

14. Save, subdivide and study the good Direct Mail you get to 
learn what to do - and maybe what not to do. Remember some of the
things that appeal may, in fact, be "tests" that, when results 
are known, are failures. Never underestimate need for simplicity 
and complete honesty.

15. People who take actions by mail are different from those who 
don't. Thus it is wise to isolate them so you can easily remail 
with new or different offers. Remember the axiom: "People who buy
by mail"...buy by mail...buy by mail..." Best lists are of mail 
buyers of similar products or services who recently purchased in 
same price range.

16. Do what's necessary to make your maill stand out, even "look 
peculiar" since it has to fight all types of competition. If it 
doesn't get opened, looked at, and read...there's no chance it 
will bring the action you want. Clever "teaser copy" on outside 
of carrier can work wonders.

17. Wise mail merchants work at differentiating between 
"suspects," "prospects" and (best of all) "customers." Once they 
can distinguish names on lists among those three categories they 
are able to achieve  cost efficiencies that novices can only 
dream about. So keep good records of what happens and when it 
happens with mailings to a particular list with a particular 
offer. Capitalize on success.

18. Testimonials can be effective promotional tools, especially 
if they're heartfelt and cogently express what the average user 
might feel about a product or service.. They're even better when 
offered by celebrities or persons well-known to the audience. 
Treat testimonials like the jewels they are and gather more.

20. There's no such thing as a "normal" percentage of return 
that's universally applicable across a wide range of products and
services but, over time and by keeping careful records you can 
determine what some norms are for your offer (s). Goal then is to
"beat your best"...if only by 1/2 or 1/4 of a percent!

21. In producing Direct Mail programs these seven words may be 
cliche - but only because it's true: "Nothing is as simple as it 
seems." Continual care needs to be exercises at every step of the
planning and conceptual stage, though any step in the 
conception-production process can become critical if close 
attention isn't paid to what's happening. "To error is human." 
Yes. I'm aware of the error but that's exact spelling of sign I 
spotted in printer's window and I reproduce it to emphasize how 
vital it is that extreme care be given to this facet of 
production. Proofreading in a professional manner is essential.

22. Direct Mail Copywriter John Yeck long ago cautioned me to be 
aware of these two "sinful" acronyms: KISS and CIPU. The first, 
"Keep It Simple, Sweetie" describes how to tell your message, 
while the second cautions us to avoid lapsing into business or 
industrial jargon which "we" understand but most everyone else 
doesn't. CIPU stands for "Clear If Previously Understood."

23. While the Power of Mail will long be with us (even though the
nature of the Postal Service might change) wise direct mailers 
see themselves practicing in the fields of "direct Marketing" or 
"Direct Response." They become knowledgeable of the synergistic 
value from use of print media (magazines, space ads, newspaper 
inserts, etc) as well as electronic media (radio and/ or TV) to 
supplement their mail promotional efforts. The combination can be
powerful.

24. Continually study and be alert to what's happening in this 
dynamic medium. It may seem that not much is new, when in fact, 
there are subtle but important shifts in many of the areas 
delineated in each of the four elements cited in Principle #1. 
(Our seminars, workshops and speeches point these out to 
sponsor's audiences.)